Clinton Claims She Didn't Know About The Dossier- Fake News at its best
Clinton Claims She Didn’t Know About The Dossier
 
Hillary Clinton claims she did not know about the dossier
Containing unproven allegations about collusion between President Donald Trump and Russia until BuzzFeed News published the document, although recent reports say her campaign funded it.
Clinton was annoyed that the controversial report had not been shared with the public until the final days of the 2016 presidential election, two Clinton associates said, The New York Times  reported  Wednesday.
Former Clinton  spokesman  Brian Fallon and the Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias denied Clinton’s involvement in the anti-Trump research that has made up the substance of the Russian collusion allegations.
Elias’  denial  appears to be intentional misleading in light of new reporting from The Washington Post that Elias hired opposition research firm Fusion GPS on behalf of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.  Full Story
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZUE5_6GKLA
All of Washington is waiting with bated breath to find out whether the Mueller investigation will provide evidence proving that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia. So far, Exhibit A against President Trump is the meeting Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort had with a group of Russians claiming to have dirt on Hillary Clinton. That meeting should never have happened. When you get an email offering to provide “very high level and sensitive information” from the “Crown prosecutor of Russia” that could “incriminate Hillary” Clinton and is part of “Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump” you don’t reply by saying “I love it.” You call the FBI.
The president claims he did not know about the meeting.
His former lawyer Michael Cohen says he did. Whether he knew is beside the point. Senior officials of his campaign were willing to accept help from Vladimir Putin; they were saved only because the meeting was a bust. The Russians didn’t end up providing any dirt.
But as bad as the Trump Tower meeting was, it took place at the request of the Russians. They were the ones who approached the Trump campaign, not the other way around.
 
Other Articles of Interest
