¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤
Just a quick opener to take note of the fact that May and several ministers now face a charge of contempt for Parliament, a leaked copy of the full Withdrawal Agreement shows the depths of May mendacity, and Macron (a man whose own city is the prisoner of migrants and demonstrators at the moment) wants the “Final” deal to demand the UK sticks to EU climate control targets.
I have nothing to add to the things I have written since November 19th:
——————————————–
Onto things of much greater importance. U.S. stocks rose yesterday after U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed to what CNBC calls “a 90-day ceasefire in the trade war” between the US and China. Every now and then, the mercantile globalists make a Freudian slip. But in fact, CNBC misspoke: the actual document says both sides will “stop the escalation” of the trade war for 90 days.
That’s not a ceasefire: it’s an agreement to keep the mutual bombardment at its current level. But The Donald is being as canny as ever. He has once again proved that issuing a release saying “deaths from plague stop rising” is worth 250 points on the Dow….and a nice little surge on the Asian markets overnight. At some point (probably in the early Spring of 2020) President Trump will finalise the deal with maximum fanfare, thus giving the NYSE one final Feelgood surge….and get reelected.
There are four things that could stop that happening. First, the Democrats could get their act together, work harder on the black vote, and come up with a dramatic alternative in terms of policies and a refreshingly different candidate. Yeh, right.
Second, one or more events could trigger the now long overdue stock market correction. This would require the Alt State to take a decision that getting rid of Trump was more important than greed; or a cataclysm in Europe or Asia beyond its control; or a middle eastern escalation leading to an oil crisis.
Third, one of Trump’s many misdemeanours finally catches up with him, and the resultant scandal blows him out of the White House. Mueller et al have been promising big revelations for two years now, but anything substantive remains firmly in the Tomorrow file.
And fourth, something else.
It is impossible to overstate the importance of Something Else: history is shaped by the curved ball from left field. An archduke is unexpectedly shot. A break-in takes place at the Watergate complex. A poll tax breaks the camel’s back. Splitting the atom produces a bomb. Rogue asteroids appear on telescopes. The list is endless.
Two months ago, Researchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst found unexpected movements – called a “deep creep” – six miles underground near the San Andreas Fault. The creep moves in a different way than expected, and may well be the preface to what is cheerfully referred to in California as The Big One.
The biggest concern in the US after an earthquake is the cost of repairs and the damage to the economy. A Big One centred near San Francisco would cause untold damage among buildings that survived the 1906 quake….something researchers say “could easily cripple the economy for a long time”.
All very worrying, but a seismologist I rang yesterday told me, “It could be tomorrow, or 2301….we just don’t know”. I have a suspicion that in the event of such a catastrophe, a huge majority would opt to re-elect out of loyalty and in favour of continuity anyway. But it does say something, does it not, that the Democrats’ best hope for 2020 (along the San Andreas fault line of analysis) is a bloody great earthquake.
Is that really true?
A large CNN poll in October found that 46% believe Trump “will win the presidential election in 2020,” and 47% said he wouldn’t. But six months earlier, the same question had a mere 40% saying yes, with 54% saying no.
That would suggest some warming of feeling towards The Donald, but as so often in such research, the question itself is profoundly silly: ordinary citizens are not psephologists, so they just plain don’t know. Not even Bruce Springsteen knows, although yesterday he said he thought a Second Term to be “a near certainty because the Democrats just don’t have a viable candidate”. But at least Springsteen gave a sensible reason for his view, which (as it happens) coincides with mine.
A Grinnell College National Poll released yesterday suggests with slightly more insight that the President’s overall approval rating is up from 39 to 43% since September, but only 30% of those interviewed said they would ‘definitely’ vote to re-elect him. However, in the absence of anyone new from the Democratic side, I doubt if more than 40% would say they’d definitely vote against Trump. So un-pc is Donald Trump, there is in my view a lot of underclaiming about willingness to vote for him, because many perceive such a thing to be anti-social.
What no piece of research can ever measure is the importance of “mega-mood” in western electorates. The current one is, without question, heavily populist. The EU elections next year are going to show this bigtime. All Trump has to do is to repeat his positioning as the common sense bloke who can tell shit from sugar, and believes the political Left has lost the plot on socially multicultural reality. This will, I’m reasonably sure, see him home and dry.
There is one other finding above all others that makes me prepared to stick my neck out. Two thirds of Americans at the moment say they are ‘moving closer to their hopes for their personal finances’ with only a quarter feeling they are ‘moving farther away’. Now that The Donald has a friendlier Fed boss than previously, if he keeps the ship steady (and stops interest rate rises from getting out of hand) I honestly think he will walk back into the White House comfortably. Most voters shun change when they feel reasonably relaxed about their own material circumstances.
There is always the chance of Something Else happening. But it’s going to take something huge (and arguably his fault) to get a Democrat into the Presidency in 2020.
 
Like this:
Like Loading...
Like Like
stephenroi says:
I understand D Grieve, Conservative, former Law Officer has secured a vote in the House of Commons to “allow MPs to take over if May’s Deal falls in the Commons” (DT headline).
I fear this will lead to Grievous Bodily Harm to the UK’s chances of leaving the EU and will almost certainly lead to more adverse conditions of membership….
Like Like
tonyopmoc says:
From The Telegraph of all Places…
“Theresa May losing control as ministers found in contempt of Parliament for the first time”
You did well.
Keep it up.
Tony
Steve Bannon is getting behind a genuine populist (for want of a better term) movement with strategies and advice. He has been giving some very worthwhile talks and interviews recently; Oxford Union, Bloomberg etc. (see on you tube) and come across very well. His interview on Bill Maher triggered, not fear loathing but some serious support even from the usual  brain dead lefties that infest the comments section.
His thoughts on national borders, Brexit and China (he recognises they are imperialist fascists) and the populist uprisings are well worth a view. Don’t accept what you’ve been told, impressive guy. Check it out.
Like Like
OAH1939 says:
It was Yogi Berra who said ‘It’s dangerous to make predictions, especially about the future’. On Wall Street they say, give them a time or give them a price, never give them both together. Which is a seque into Presidential predictions.
In May 1991, right after Gulf War 1 George HW Bush has a 90+ per cent approval rating and the conventional wisdom was it would be a cakewalk for re-election in November 1992 and the Democratic big guns decided to opt out. That left an opening for an unknown Bill Clinton to run.
But that’s not all, a billionaire nutcase H. Ross Perot decide to run as an independent on a ticket that was part Tea Party and part Trump. He took nearly 20 per cent of the vote, mostly from Bush, and Clinton beat became President with about 43 per cent of the vote.
Just think what might have happened if Perot had  not run. Bush would have been reelected and a Democrat probably Clinton would have won in 1996 and 2000. There would have been no Monica Lewinsky scandal since that occured in 1994/5 in the White House. The Lewinsky scandal weakened Clinton to the point he agreed with the military that NATO could expand into Eastern Europe. Something Bush41 and Baker promised Gorbachev would never happen. Gorby failed to get it in writing.
But that would mean no Bush43 and Cheney in 2000  and a  different reaction to 911 and certainly no Iraq War2.0. The Middle East might be a very different place today. Libya, Syria and Yemen might be intact. Relations with Russia would be saner.
Just my meanderings the day before Bush41’s funeral. I dealt with his administration. They were professionals to their fingertips. Better times compared to today’s dystopia.
Like Like
OAH1939 says:
Will Trump be re-elected? Who knows at this point but I wouldn’t put too much money on it. Demographics are against him. He has to get Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio , Wisconsin and Florida. A recession, or at least slowdown, seems cooked in the books. Bang go the blue collar states. The farmers will be unhappy about losing soybean sales to China.
And then you have Florida, always close but getting browner all the time, and now, as the result of a referendum, all discharged jailbirds, overwhemingly minorities, will be able to vote. So bang goes Florida.
With demographic changes some think the US will become a one party state, like California, in the next few years as whites, the backbone of the Republican party, become just another minority nationally.
Mind you things are changing here too. I am off to Asia on 8 December returning 10 January. It is quite possible that when I arrive back at Heathrow we could have a Pakistani Prime Minister in Sajid Dravid. That would be until the next election after which we will be welcoming Jezza. I think you all should brush up on your Spanish since the future looks like Venezuela!
(Jezza specialises in Latin American wives, Chilean, Mexican and is a fan of Cuban and Venezuelan politics.)
What could possibly go wrong?
Like Liked by 2 people
desmond says:
did you see the recent ‘Clinton couple’ on their first night speaking tour.. which I assume was the beginning of their effort to have a second bite at the cherry come 2020.
they were totally pathetic in front of 3000+ who had paid to hear them. The hall sat 19000+ so was about 85% empty. if they go on it will need smaller and smaller venues.. they sounded and looked like busted flushes..  at the moment there is no opposition to trumpo… just mueller who must be a joke..
I do so hope the little Rothschild toad is toast.
Nobody who has done a modicum of research believes that man-made CO2, Carbon Dioxide, drives climate. It’s lunacy. CO2 is plant food, the basis of most life on Earth.
I could divert into climate science but won’t: It’s a political agenda, to control industry.
Dr. Tim Ball’s great little book is a must-read:
Human Caused Global Warming, The Biggest Deception In History.
In only 121 pages Dr. Tim exposes the science, politics & people behind the fraud: Rockefeller Banksters, Left wing Multibillionaires Maurice Strong, Ted Turner & George Soros, & liar politicians like Al Gore, now a multimillionaire via presenting the fraud worldwide, plus many others. Also discussed is the falsehood of overpopulation, & the Malthusian & Darwinian theories these “people” base their actions on.
Website: http://www.drtimball.com
John Doran.
Any thoughts JW on Trump’s noises about the Fed and what he might do with it?
As for the ‘something’, I was listening to a podcast the other day which said that it is disruption to the food supply which usually causes revolutions.
Steven Woolfe, barrister, brawler & Independent MEP has been excellent in exposing TheArse  May & pals Brexit lies:
4.41 mins
I should think so.
David Icke always reckoned Heath was possessed, which I always scoffed at. As I get older, not so much. My Catholic training prods my memories of priests called in for exorcisms & the witch hunts of The Middle Ages:
“There are more things in Heaven & Earth than are dreampt of in your philosophy, Horatio.”
Whatever.
The noose is too good for TheArse & cronies, but with The Stony Bliar walking around after a war on lies of WMD & possibly ~ 1,455,590 deaths to his credit, I’ll not hold my breath,
Bliar is/was a member of the UN Death cult, The Club Of Rome.
John Doran.
“.. The fact that May and several ministers now face a charge of contempt for Parliament, a leaked copy of the full Withdrawal Agreement shows the depths of May mendacity”
So, the British Government (or those in the security services in control of it) have done the exact opposite of The BREXIT democratic decision. The have lied about absolutely everything they said they would do to implement this decision, and have done their utmost best to completely hide their lies, even from The British Parliament, and even now refuse to release any information, with regards to  what they have agreed, with The EU unelected  Dictatorship.
I have no legal training, but it seems to me that these people, (if your further analysis is correct) are committing are far greater crime than the charge of contempt for Parliament. They should be facing The Criminal Charge of Treason. They would appear to be guilty of this “Treason definition is – the offence of attempting by overt acts to overthrow the government of the state to which the offender owes allegiance”
Tony
Hhhmm, an interesting take there, John. I have read a couple of articles recently (can’t remember where) that argue that demographical shifts will deny Trump in the key swing States even if he equals his 2016 vote, but I suspect the deciding factor will be the Economy, which is of course globally deteriorating, not helped by Trump’s own policies, of course.
Personally I would put his chances at 50:50 again, if the Economy remains healthy, if his Trade wars do not cause more manufacturing losses than gains, if he doesn’t accidentally start a hot war involving US casualties and so on. I doubt that anything Mueller comes out with now will make any difference, that whole investigation has become so tainted in the eyes of ordinary folk it should see to that. One thing I do think would really boost his chances is a Clinton prosecution, something likely to destroy the Democrats in the short term, which is of course why it would never be willingly allowed.
The Californian BIG One is certainly due, but as your expert said, ‘due’ in geologic terms covers hundreds of years. That said, there are also reports that although geologic events seem to have calmed a little they are still much higher than normal. A Big One on a global scale is also thought by many to be overdue.
Anyway, prediction may be popular at this time of year but accuracy is more dependent on luck than anything else.
Like Like
Ron says:
————–
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Contact
If you want to contact me about something, the email address is:                                     jawslog@gmail.com
Recent Posts
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
