On Thursday, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr stated to CBS that his committee’s investigation into Russia has found absolutely no collusion between Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia.
Burr went into more detail saying that his committee has investigated over 200 witnesses and examined over 300,000 pages.
Check out what President Trump had to say about the news:
Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion. “We don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.”  Thank you!
Check out what  Politico had to say about Burr’s comments:
Burr also described an environment of bipartisanship within the committee, which he oversees with Vice Chair Mark Warner (D-Va.). Burr told CBS he found it difficult to believe the committee would splinter along partisan lines, as was the case in the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia investigation, which was shuttered by its then-GOP majority last year.
The House Intelligence Committee, now chaired by a Democrat, has announced plans to reopen and expand its Russia probe. That committee voted Wednesday to share interview transcripts with special counsel Robert Mueller’s team, potentially to catch any additional witnesses who lied to the committee.
How many investigations do we need? If the Democrats truly cared about injustice and criminal activity, they would start investigations into Hillary Clinton. She deleted thousands of emails, lied under oath and even destroyed her hard drives with hammers. But as we all know by now, the laws don’t seem to apply to Democrats in Washington D.C.
This whole situation seems like a bombshell story, right? Well, this news didn’t gain any traction with the main stream media, most likely because it didn’t fit their narrative. President Trump took to Twitter to explain his frustrations:
The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between “Trump” & Russia….
…It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!
When will this nonsense end? President Trump has every right to be angry. We are two years into his presidency and we have seen absolutely no evidence that suggests that he colluded with Russia.
You Might Like
