Trump is coming to El Paso, etc.
Hi everyone! Is anyone still around?  I feel like a failure when it comes to blogging these days. I need to get with it! I’m doing well and I hope you are too! I’ve been working double shifts a lot these days. I’ll be going to Knoxville, Tennessee next week for training for a new job. I’ll be working two jobs pretty soon. I took a break but plan to update the blog more often. I’ve been reading blogs here and there but not as much as I should. I hope you’re staying warm, especially those of you in the Midwest and east coast states.
If you’ve been keeping up with the news, you may know our ‘wonderful’ president, Donald Trump is coming to El Paso on Monday evening. You may have also heard what he said about El Paso in his State of the Union address recently. According to him, we are unsafe and dangerous. We are safer with a border fence. To be honest, my worst nightmare is coming true. I’ve dreamt he would come to El Paso someday. It was almost like I was stuck in a Simpsons episode during that dream. Me and many other people don’t want him here spewing his propaganda about illegal immigration, a wall, etc. I don’t have time to attend because I’ll be working. If I wasn’t working, I would be there protesting his arrival. I wouldn’t mind seeing the Donald Trump baby blimp . Some nearby schools and businesses are closing for the day or early due to his arrival. I’m not going to lie, there’s crime and shootings here but not like in other cities. I can’t say I’ve ever felt unsafe in my 28 years of living here. Trump is trying to say all of this crime is because of illegal immigrants coming into El Paso. If we are so unsafe, why have we been voted one of the safest cities in the nation for the third year straight? I’ll speak for myself and many El Pasoans…we don’t want you here spreading lies, Trump. Go back to golfing or actually working for a change. Just about everything that comes out of your mouth is lies and fake news. How DARE you say El Paso is unsafe? El Paso is filled with some of the nicest and friendliest people. The most dangerous things here are I-10 and sometimes Chico’s Tacos when it upsets your stomach. Take care everyone and I’ll see you soon!
Photo from Google Search
Published by Lisa A.
Hello everyone! My name is Lisa Amaya. I'm a 30 some year old mom to one son. My blog is about my life, entertainment, current events, people and events in my hometown, El Paso, Texas, etc. My blog will also feature pieces about Ciudad Juarez, Mexico and surrounding areas in New Mexico. I also hope to include more travel blog posts. Guest bloggers will also contribute from time to time!  I've been a writer since I was 6 years old. I graduated from New Mexico State University with a degree in journalism. I've written for various newspapers and magazines. I plan on focusing more of my time on blogging and freelance writing. I took a five-year break from writing but I'm back at it! Thank you for stopping by and welcome! View all posts by Lisa A.
Post navigation
Lisa, to answer your question, I try to avoid watching him live, as I get frustrated with the untruthfulness and demeaning of others. I would prefer to read what he said or watch a summary. I often write to Senators and speak with their staffers. My key questions are “what will it take for you to condemn this President?” and “Is this the man you want to spend your dear reputation on?”
The GOP Senators know the President is untrustworthy and the damage he is doing to our reputation around the globe. Yet, they are scared of him and his aroused base of voters. We have seen a little more push back after General Mattis resigned and Roger Stone was indicted. Yet, we cannot shrink to greatness by ceding our global leadership role and beating up on our allies. Relationships matter – we cannot lead with fear or transactional thinking, which is how the President approaches many things.
Future historians will not remember this President well. I just hope it is a four year tenure, at most, so we can stop the bleeding. This year we will see a softening economy, after over ten years of growth, debt just passing $22 trillion on its way to $23 trillion, and more on his very likely criminal and unethical behavior will unfold with Mueller and further investigations. Then, my former party leadership will be running for cover.
Keith
Lisa, it looks like you survived the two pep rallies, although a BBC reporter was roughed up pretty badly by a Trump supporter. What the person supporting the MAGA caps fails to realize as he shouted “eff the media” as he roughed up the man, is the biggest purveyor of fake news is behind the podium. When I see his supporters say how honest the President, it is terribly sad for me. His five biographers and ghost writer of “The Art of the Deal'” each said Trump has a hard time with the truth. Thomas Wells, an attorney, who worked for Trump said “Trump lies everyday, even about things of no consequence.”
Politifacts has him being untruthful 69% of the time, increasing to 75% of the time at rallies. And, when his attorney John Dowd resigned as Trump was not taking his advice, he was worried that his boss was an “effing liar.” He used the actual word. When his former economic advisor, Gary Cohn witnessed him lying about something Trump said he did not say to the Australian PM, he called him a “prodigious liar.”
What concerns me greatly, is when he sets policies off of his lies. So, when people say how truthful he is, I want them to remember what this independent voter (and former GOP and Dem) wrote above. Trump is a successful sales person, but he will only use the truth if it works in his favor. It saddens me to say that start out with not believing a word the President says – the odds are well in my favor.
Keith
Hello Lisa I would love to explaine my point of view when it come to President Trump, but I don’t want to start a massive political debate on your blog. I respect you and your blog and do not wish to create a mess. If this happens feel free to delete my comment.
Our country was divided long before President Trump was elected. Until the system is repaired it will remain that way. I like President Trump because he is confident and he is honest. He will look you in the eyes and tell you exactly what he thinks, he’s not part of the political arena. He will not play their games and he will not be bought. He is a successful business man and knows how to run a large company. America is a business. Now people say “But he’s gone bankrupt”. Yes he has but he has always picked himself up and made a come back.He is not afraid to fail, and doesn’t quit when he does. Given time he will do good things for this country.
I will say I didn’t vote for the man because I don’t often vote. The last election I participated in was to make marijuana legal in my state. That is the only thing I voted for.
I don’t vote because our political system is broken. A two party system doesn’t work and never has. Forcing people to choose the lesser of two evils is not a choice at all. But, the argument can be made that there are other choices. Perhaps, but these other parties don’t have a chance in our current system. Did you know that votes cast for the other parties are given to whomever is winning the election? Our votes do not count, the electoral college chooses the winner of the election. The popular vote is a sham designed for the sole purpose of make the american citizens believe we are a free country. We are not free and never have been.
Lisa, the truth will rarely get in the way of a Trump story. He has been selling this border wall on fear and not many facts. Immigration is an issue that needs to be fixed in a thoughtful, data centric and compassionate way, but we don’t have a crisis on the border.
It would be nice to talk about the ill-conceived tariffs causing more far more farm bankruptcies than the previous year, or addressing global warming with more renewables and conservation, or reducing our debt, or dealing with a slowing global economy which will hit home this year….
A proud moment for Texas is it is the nation’s leader in wind energy with over 16% of its electricity provided by that source. It might be good to say how immigration is accretive to the Texas and US economy. But, that would be the truth and has no place at a Trump rally.
Keith
don’t forget to wear you MAGA hat when you protest.
Hmmm.  the thought of you being angry and protesting. Mmm, Mmm, Mmm!  that’s kinda spicy and sassy.  Take pics  
Leave a Reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Archives
Archives
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 4,357 other followers
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 4,357 other followers
Search for:
©Life of an El Paso Woman , 2015, 2016,2017, 2018, 2019. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this site’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Life of an El Paso Woman with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this:
