Ivanka Trump in rare interview doesn’t mince words when asked about ‘concern’ of Mueller probe
Ivanka Trump in rare interview doesn’t mince words when asked about ‘concern’ of Mueller probe
 
Ivanka Trump said in an exclusive and rare interview this week with ABC News that she has “zero concern” about any member of her family being indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller as the Russian collusion probe reportedly winds down.
After pointing out that some of the president’s former aides have been indicted by Mueller and noting that people are saying “the walls are closing in,” Abby Huntsman, co-host of “The View,” asked a rather remarkable question: “Are you concerned about anyone in your life that you love being involved?”
“No,” Trump answered, without a trace of worry.
“There’s nothing there, yet it’s created weeks and weeks and months of headlines,” she would add. “So no, I have zero concern.”
The question rings of asking a man when did you stop beating your wife.
Ivanka Trump was asked if she had any knowledge of talks about building a Trump Tower in Moscow, according to The Hill .
The deal that never was is about the only thing Trump critics have to hang their hat on when it comes to possible collusion.
“Literally almost nothing,” Trump answered. “We were an active business.”
“There was never a binding contract,” she pointed out. “I never talked to the — with a third party outside of the organization about it. It was one of — I mean we could have had 40 or 50 deals like that, that were floating around, that somebody was looking at. Nobody visited it to see if it was worth our time. So this was not exactly like an advanced project.”
As Mueller gets closer to completing his investigation, a recent Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that 50 percent of Americans surveyed don’t believe his final report will be evenhanded .
Mueller was just in the news when he took the extraordinary step of releasing a statement disputing a “blockbuster” report from BuzzFeed that the president instructed his former attorney Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about the timing of a proposed Moscow Trump Tower project.
The president’s daughter was also asked about a controversial DC “ art exhibit ” that features an Ivanka look-alike vacuuming up crumbs thrown by visitors.
Screengrab of Ivanka-bashing ‘art’ exhibit.
“I think it’s a very sexist representation of a woman, but what bothered me about this image is that they hired a 16-year-old girl to stand there and have crumbs thrown at her for two hours a day.”
She took to Twitter earlier this week to say, “Women can choose to knock each other down or build each other up. I choose the latter.”
President Trump launched the Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative on Thursday, an Ivanka-driven project the president spoke about in his State of the Union address.
“[WGDP] is the United States of America’s commitment to economically empowering women and, in so doing, achieving greater peace, prosperity and stability around the world,” she tweeted.
#WGDP is the United States of America’s commitment to economically empowering women and, in so doing, achieving greater peace, prosperity and stability around the world. https://t.co/P1C4289d1x
 
We know first-hand that censorship against conservative news is real. Please share stories and encourage your friends to sign up for our daily email blast so they are not getting shut out of seeing conservative news.
Latest posts by Tom Tillison ( see all )
Your email
Recipient email
