Trump’s Leverage in the Shutdown Fight: His Own Nihilism
It’s not an ethos. Photo: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images
On Wednesday, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said that the White House could not accept the status quo level of border control funding (for the sake of ending the government shutdown) because “this is not a status quo situation. We are in a crisis situation.”
Nielsen was half-right. The United States is in a crisis — but one entirely of the Trump administration’s own making.
It is true that an influx of Central American asylum seekers has tested our government’s capacity for detaining migrants, and that this has contributed to a significant number of crimes against humanity . But these problems would not exist if the Trump administration stopped insisting on detaining asylum seekers while they await their days in court (there are alternative methods of preventing such migrants from absconding into the middle of the country in the interim). More fundamentally, the problem would not exist if the Trump administration decided that illegal immigration wasn’t actually a top-tier threat to the safety and well-being of the American people. Which it isn’t.
Contra Trump, undocumented immigrants do not represent a significant threat to public safety: States with higher concentrations of undocumented immigrants tend to have lower rates of violent crime — and this correlation persists even when controlling for a given state’s median age, level of urbanization, and rate of unemployment or incarceration. Meanwhile, as the American population ages, the future of American economic growth and the long-term viability of Social Security likely depends on an infusion of foreign workers.
What’s more, even if illegal immigration were a scourge, it still wouldn’t make sense to suggest that America is currently experiencing a “crisis” of illegal immigration. Apprehensions for illegal border crossing are in long-term decline . And that trend isn’t the product of weakened border enforcement. Quite the contrary: Over the course of the Obama presidency, federal spending on border security increased by more than 37 percent , the number of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. labor force held steady , and the number formally deported by the American government skyrocketed.
Illustration: David Taintor/Department of Homeland Security
In truth, it wasn’t a crisis of border insecurity that compelled Trump to shutter the federal government because Democrats refused to fund his wall; rather, it was a crisis of personal insecurity. The president turned against a continuing resolution after taking heat from the television and radio personalities whose praise he values above all else. Asked Wednesday why he wouldn’t support reopening branches of the federal government that don’t deal directly with immigration, the president reportedly replied, “I would look foolish if I did that. ”
But what makes Nielsen’s remark truly Orwellian is that it is an argument for exacerbating an actual crisis in the name of a fictional one. Central American asylum seekers aren’t driving thousands of American families into financial hardship, depriving American veterans of much-needed medical care, or jeopardizing the health of American children — but the government shutdown is. As the New York Times editorial board observes:
An estimated 800,000 federal workers have had their lives upended by this latest presidential temper tantrum … Routine screenings by the Food and Drug Administration are being put on hold, and the Federal Communications Commission is set to halt most of its operations on Thursday. The situation on Indian lands is about to get dire. The list goes on and on.
For the workers directly affected, among those facing the greatest economic uncertainty are contractors, who make up more than 40 percent of the government workforce. This includes not only white-collar positions, but also thousands of blue-collar jobs, such as janitors and security guards. Unlike regular government employees, many contractors may not be compensated for lost time. They could simply lose the income.
This litany demonstrates that Trump’s position is substantively indefensible. It also, tragically, suggests that his gambit might be more tactically sound than his critics wish to believe. To be sure, from a medium-term perspective, it makes no strategic sense for an already unpopular president to sabotage the functioning of his own administration to court Rush Limbaugh’s approval. But it does seem possible that Trump could eventually “win” the shutdown fight on the strength of his sociopathy.
In concrete terms, it makes little difference whether Congress appropriates a few billion dollars in funding for Trump’s border wall. Beyond the fact that the wall is likely one of the most innocuous (and ineffective) forms of border militarization the administration could pursue, it isn’t even clear that the White House would succeed in spending the appropriated funds before Trump exited office; according to the Times, the administration has spent “less than 10 percent” of the border security funds that Congress allocated over the past 12 months.
Thus, the stakes of the standoff on wall funding are primarily symbolic and strategic. The wall would function as a monument to nativists’ triumph in a culture war. And by allowing Trump to break their will with a shutdown, Democrats would encourage future hostage-taking.
Those are very real stakes. But they’re also much more abstract than the consequences of a prolonged shutdown. And Trump has repeatedly indicated that he sees his own insensitivity to human suffering as a vital source of leverage over Democrats. He explicitly framed his administration’s sabotage of the Affordable Care Act as a strategy for forcing Democrats to cooperate with the law’s repeal and replacement. He has repeatedly suggested that he doesn’t want to make a deal on Dreamers while a court order protecting them from the threat of deportation remains in effect — because he believes he’ll be able to secure larger concessions once that population is thrown into peril. This week, Trump observed that “most of the people not getting paid [as a result of the shutdown] are Democrats.”
If the shutdown extends, and its destructive effects multiply, Democrats will face an ethical quandary: How much concrete suffering should one tolerate for the sake of upholding a righteous principle?
And that is one conundrum that Trump will never have to confront.
Tags:
Most Viewed Stories
Most Viewed Stories
13 mins ago
For the first time in Gallup’s polling , a majority of black respondents say black-white relations are somewhat or very bad
28 mins ago
Sean Spicer switches sides
Surprise, surprise: Sean Spicer is now officially a member of the mainstream media. The former White House press secretary has signed a contract to serve as a special correspondent for syndicated newsmagazine show Extra.
“When they pitched this to me, I said, ‘Yeah, I love the idea,’” Spicer told The Hollywood Reporter on Wednesday.
Spicer, who famously tangled with television reporters during his stint in the White House, is beginning with a special series that focuses on the personal lives and views of D.C. insiders, including some of his former Trump administration colleagues. 
Most Popular
12:03 p.m.
The Trump administration is making it more difficult to become a citizen. Probably not coincidentally, wait times to do so have soared.
The time that aspiring Americans must wait to be naturalized is now almost twice as long, 10 months, as it was two years ago. In Las Vegas, where the office has a particularly large backlog, applicants could wait 31 months.
The delays come as the Trump administration tightens scrutiny of applications, diverts staff from reviewing them and introduces proposals likely to make it more difficult, and cumbersome, for green-card holders to qualify and complete the process.
The administration’s move to tighten restrictions on immigration have awakened many longtime permanent residents to the fact that a green card does not shield them from deportation. It has also compelled many to seek citizenship in order to cast a ballot, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants poised to become potential voters ahead of the 2020 election.
11:35 a.m.
Chicago PD superintendent laments the gap in coverage between Smollett case and everyday violence
“I just wish that the families of gun violence in this city got this much attention because that’s who really deserves the amount of attention that we’re giving to this particular incident.”
The teachers strike movement hits Oakland
BREAKING: Teachers in Oakland, California, have gone on strike demanding smaller class sizes and a 12 percent retroactive raise.
11:03 a.m.
A murder in Indiana is looking increasingly like an anti-Muslim hate crime
An incident that was initially reported as a fatal road rage shooting has shined an even brighter light on potential hate crime legislation in Indiana. Mustafa Ayoubi, a Carmel native and Indiana University graduate, was killed Saturday. His friends say it was because of his Muslim faith. 
Witnesses told investigators that Dustin Passarelli, 33, yelled slurs about Islam just moments before he shot Ayoubi to death in an apartment complex parking lot.At least two shots struck Ayoubi, 32, in the back, court records said. The man yelled: “You are followers of Muhammad,” and “Muhammad is a pedophile,” Usman Ashraf, a friend of Ayoubi who witnessed the shooting, told IndyStar.
SMOLLETT CASE
-Injuries to Smollett were self-inflicted scratches.
-Smollett wrote a $3,500 check to the brothers to stage the attack.
-Attack was done to promote his career.
-Smollett sent the threat letter.
-Smollett “orchestrated this”
9:38 a.m.
9:21 a.m.
Mike Pompeo says he won’t run for senate in Kansas, which probably doesn’t actually mean much
SoS Mike Pompeo tells NBC Today show he won’t run for #KSSEN in 2020: “It’s ruled out. I’m here. I’m loving it…I’m going to be the Secretary of State as long as president trump gives me the opportunity to serve as America’s senior diplomat.”
8:55 a.m.
Milwaukee is expected to be tapped as the Democratic Convention host in 2020, but Miami isn’t going down without a fight
Miami’s stable of Democratic donors — many of whom have hosted President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton multiple times and are already being hit up by numerous Democratic presidential hopefuls — are applying their clout to the city’s bid. Some of them say they’re already leaning on potential 2020 candidates — they won’t say which ones — to get them behind Miami’s convention bid.
Underpinning Miami’s pitch: It’s the heart of the largest Democratic county in the nation’s biggest swing state. Losing Florida — which is worth 29 Electoral College votes, compared to Wisconsin’s 10 — would likely cost President Donald Trump his reelection.
“We’re making a final effort to convince the DNC that Miami is the best place to go, that this could be a boost to the nominee,” said Chris Korge, the top financier of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and a co-chair of Miami’s convention effort.
California’s status as right-wing punching bag makes little sense, considering what an economic powerhouse it is
California is now the world’s fifth-largest economy, up from eighth a decade ago. If it’s a socialist hellhole, it’s a socialist hellhole that somehow nurtured Apple, Google, Facebook, Tesla, Uber, Netflix, Oracle and Intel, not to mention old-economy stalwarts like Chevron, Disney, Wells Fargo and the Hollywood film industry. California firms still attract more venture capital than the rest of the country combined, while its farms produce more fruits, nuts and wine than the rest of the country combined. During the Great Recession, when the state was mired in a budget crisis so brutal its bond rating approached junk and it gave IOUs to government workers, mainstream media outlets were proclaiming the death of the California dream. But after a decade of steady growth that has consistently outpaced the nation’s, plus a significant tax hike on the wealthy, California is in much sounder fiscal shape; while federal deficits are soaring again, the state has erased its red ink and even stashed $13 billion in a rainy day fund.
7:58 a.m.
Things took a dramatic turn in the hearing over possible election fraud in North Carolina
The son of Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris testified Wednesday that he warned his father repeatedly that he believed a political operative now at the center of an election-fraud investigation had previously used illegal tactics to win votes.
John Harris, now an assistant U.S. attorney in Raleigh, said he advised his father in conversations and emails that he believed Leslie McCrae Dowless was “shady” and appeared to have illegally collected absentee ballots in 2016 while working for a different Republican candidate in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District.
… At one point during his testimony, John Harris’s voice cracked and his father wept.
“I thought what he was doing was illegal, and I was right,” John Harris said about Dowless. He added: “I had no reason to believe that my father actually knew, or my mother or any other associate with the campaign had any knowledge. I think Dowless told them he wasn’t doing any of this, and they believed him.”
6:45 a.m.
Maybe Trump should have consulted with our allies before announcing a big policy change in Syria
As the deadline approaches for the withdrawal of U.S. forces fighting the Islamic State in Syria, America’s closest European allies have turned down a Trump administration request to fill the gap with their own troops, according to U.S. and foreign officials.
Allies have “unanimously” told the United States that they “won’t stay if you pull out,” a senior administration official said. France and Britain are the only other countries with troops on the ground in the U.S.-led coalition battling  the Islamic State .
Along with the United States, they have provided training, supplies, logistics and intelligence for the Syrian Democratic Forces, the Kurdish-dominated group that has done most of the fighting. U.S., French and British ­forces also operate heavy artillery and conduct the airstrikes that have been decisive against the militants.
Migrant families are still being separated by the Trump administration, sometimes over “uncorroborated allegations” of crimes, according to a report published Thursday by a Texas civil rights group.
“Family separations are still very much happening in the southern border, they’re still being torn apart by the U.S. government,” Efrén Olivares, director of racial and economic justice at the Texas Civil Rights Project, told NBC News.
While the separations were not happening at the same scale as when the Trump administration announced the “zero tolerance” policy last spring, some occurred under troubling circumstances, Olivares said. The report, which looked at cases between June 22 through Dec. 17 in McAllen, Texas, comes roughly eight months since the government formally ended the policy.
The report said it found 38 cases of parents and legal guardians separated from their children.
Lead is still a major public-health disaster in many American cities
While  we rightfully panic  about the increasing dangers of a warming planet wrought by human industry, our negligence in housing — paired with a helping of systemic racism and poverty — has insured that children today are exposed to environmental dangers that should have been eradicated long ago. Five weeks before Trump made his declaration in an attempt to seize his border wall funding, researchers at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland published  two new studies in coordination with a Cuyahoga County early-childhood initiative. Their conclusions were harrowing. Analyzing statistics obtained from the Ohio Department of Health, the Case studies found that 10.7 percent of children born in 2012 were found to have elevated blood lead level (EBLL) by age five.  That’s 1,237 affected kids . And though overall lead-contamination rates for children in the region have declined for many years, kids under six in Cuyahoga County accounted for 41 percent of Ohio’s cases of elevated exposure.
Children living in pre-1978 housing laden with lead paint is the primary threat identified by the studies. Such homes are prevalent throughout Cleveland and its suburbs, and it’s chilling to consider the likelihood of children crawling around houses containing materials that could poison them. Before age six is about the worst possible time for exposure, as the neurotoxin present in lead potentially causes permanent damage in developing brains.
The Democratic Socialists of America will most likely provide support to Bernie Sanders, by far the candidate most closely aligned with their politics
In an email sent to DSA members after Sanders  launched his bid for president Tuesday , DSA leadership alerted its chapters that it would soon begin polling membership on whether or not they’d support backing Sanders and outlined its potential strategy moving forward.
“DSA could play an important role in supporting Sanders — both by helping Sanders win the Democratic Party primary and go on to defeat Trump in the general election, and by growing DSA as a serious, independent, socialist pole in the broader Sanders movement,” the email reads. The organization’s leadership said in the email that they had come to believe that for DSA to play a significant part in the campaign, “DSA must get involved in Sanders work as early as possible.”
The national campaign, which could launch as early as this spring, would largely focus on promoting the central ideas of Sanders’ platform — Medicare for All, free college,  the Green New Deal , and  ending cash bail  — while supporting the growth of local- and state-level Democratic Socialists for Bernie campaigns and holding town halls, canvassing, and phone banking.
2/20/2019
The stockpile of the U.S. Coast Guard officer who intended to kill Democrats and journalists
Photo: U.S. District Court via AP
2/20/2019
The EPA cribbed the music for a game about recycling from the background music for Yoshi’s Island
The United States’ Environmental Protection Agency has an educational flash game on its site called  Recycle City Challenge . That in itself is not special. However, what is interesting is that when you clicked the Let’s Get Started button, a familiar tune for Mario fans played.
The Verge  reached out to the EPA for comment after the incident. Here’s what the EPA told the publication:
The ‘Recycle City Challenge’ game was created for EPA by a contractor. We are looking into whether the contractor received permission to use the music, to the extent permission was necessary in this instance.
Sarah Isgur, the Republican operative CNN hired to helm 2020 coverage, reportedly interviewed with MSNBC
 It appears that Isgur, as she was preparing to exit the D.O.J., wasn’t only shopping around for a media gig at CNN. Cable-news sources told me that she also passed through 30 Rock to discuss a potential role at MSNBC, where she met with top newsroom management in recent months. “She had a detailed idea of what she wanted to do,” someone with knowledge of the discussions told me. “She wanted to do something on-air combined with some sort of quasi-management, behind-the-scenes planning kind of work. I think she looked at Dave Chalian and said, I wanna do that.”
A second source with direct knowledge of the talks said that such a role “was never under consideration.” This person added, “She was pitching her intimate knowledge of the Mueller probe as a selling point.” (CNN has said that Isgur will have no role in any coverage related to Mueller or the Department of Justice.) MSNBC declined to comment, and CNN didn’t immediately have a comment. Isgur didn’t immediately return an e-mail, but after this article was initially published, a source close to her provided a different characterization, saying that anything related to Mueller was always off the table in Isgur’s conversations with both MSNBC and CNN.
2/20/2019
Nancy Pelosi announces that the House will vote on a resolution to oppose Trump’s emergency declaration
All Members take an oath of office to support and defend the Constitution. The President’s decision to go outside the bounds of the law to try to get what he failed to achieve in the constitutional legislative process violates the Constitution and must be terminated. We have a solemn responsibility to uphold the Constitution, and defend our system of checks and balances against the President’s assault.
—Nancy Pelosi
Email
You\'ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up.
