Trump Explodes as Democrats Close In on His Business
Democrats are calling it an “M.R.I.” of the president’s finances. It may be more like a colonoscopy.
by
By Win McNamee/Getty Images.
Donald Trump on Thursday whined again that Democrats are engaging in unprecedented “presidential harassment,” his term for the congressional scrutiny the new House majority is beginning to intensify. “The Dems and their committees are going ‘nuts,’” he wrote in one tweet of a three-part rant Thursday morning. “The Republicans never did this to President Obama .”
It’s a particularly rich complaint coming from the guy who spent years falsely claiming Barack Obama was not born in the United States, but it reflects Trump’s growing unease as Democrats revive and launch new probes into his administration and his business empire. Trump has taken out his angst on House Intelligence Committee chairman Adam Schiff in particular, as Schiff and other Democrats on the panel prepare to launch a broad inquiry into the president’s family business. “After having found zero Russian Collusion,” Trump tweeted Thursday, “he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life, both financial and personal, even though there is no reason to be doing so.”
But Democrats say there’s plenty of reason. Schiff’s committee is reportedly interested in the foreign-business ties of the Trump Organization, in addition to possible money laundering. “We are going to take an M.R.I. to any Russian financing that the Trump Organization and the president may have had,” California Representative Eric Swalwell, a member of the panel, told Axios . “But we are not going to be so naive to assume that he’s faithful to the Russians. There may have been other countries who have tried to financially influence him.” Democrats are stepping up oversight efforts in other areas, too. In a hearing on Thursday, Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee will reportedly push for an ethics-reform package that requires presidential and vice-presidential candidates to disclose 10 years of tax returns.
As the noose tightens, Trump—who has so far enjoyed the protection of a Republican-controlled Congress—is in revolt. “If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation,” he declared during his State of the Union Address on Tuesday, a line that received scant applause . “I thought it was, frankly, kind of bizarre,” Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez told NBC of Trump’s ostensible threat. “I don’t think that investigations into federal misconduct have anything to do with our economy.” Schiff echoed her comments on Wednesday, telling reporters , “I can understand why the idea of meaningful oversight terrifies the president. Several of his close associates are going to jail, others await trial, and criminal investigations continue. We’re going to do our job and won’t be distracted or intimidated by threats or attacks.”
For their part, Democrats will need to ensure they don’t come off as the “ridiculous partisan investigations” Trump has claimed them to be. While a Washington Post-ABC News poll last month found a majority of Americans support the Democratic probes into the president, nearly half of those surveyed also expressed concern about the fairness of the inquiries. Of course, public support for the investigations could grow if they produce results—and, based on what’s already been uncovered by special counsel Robert Mueller, not to mention Trump’s apparent anxiety, further discoveries could follow. “We’re going to do our homework first,” House Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings told the Post. “What [Republicans] would do is, they would go out and make headlines a week or two before the hearing and then look for some facts to prove the headlines. We’re not doing that.”
More Great Stories from Vanity Fair
— Nancy Pelosi is America’s most powerful power-suit boss
Looking for more? Sign up for our daily Hive newsletter and never miss a story.
FOLLOW
Follow to get the latest news and analysis about the players in your inbox.
YOU MIGHT LIKE
SEEK
© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.
Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/28/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/28/18).
