By
White House Chief of Staff?
The position does not require confirmation of the Senate or anyone else, besides the “president.”
Mick Mulvaney has been Acting WH Chief of Staff Since January 2nd.  He was basically lassoed into the position, while present in the White House for another reason.  He didn’t want the job, and has been heard to be grumbling about leaving, since “attaining” it.
And perhaps this is the reason his title hasn’t changed from “Acting.”
Or, perhaps Trump has been waiting patiently for William Barr to be confirmed, so that he could replace Mick with the man who knows everything about the Mueller investigation.  And who will be loyal to him instead of to the Constitution.  The #1 criteria for any White House appointee.
I don’t have to tell you how this would be the single most corrupt appointment yet made by Trump.  And that’s saying something.
Donald Trump, Rudy Giuliani, and their entire legal team could spend weeks being debriefed by Whitaker on everything he knows about Mueller and the investigation.  I can’t think of one rule, regulation or law preventing this.
Can you?
Donald Trump has been reported not to have been working on a response to Mueller’s report.  But any response would be child’s play, if all the information were to be known beforehand.
Not too worried about optics, is he? https://t.co/XYuphvPefH
And I’m not the only one speculating this.  Their are sources making the claim.
I take you back to this article concerning Matt Whitaker being considered for WH Chief of Staff.  This article came out as Trump was looking for a Kelly replacement:
Matt Whitaker Being Considered for Trump’s Chief of Staff
POSTED 7:51 AM, DECEMBER 10, 2018, BY  STAFF WRITER , UPDATED AT 07:57AM, DECEMBER 10, 2018
[…]
But Whitaker is possibly on the shortlist for another top position. Sources confirm that Whitaker is being considered for the president’s chief of staff position.
This comes after Trump announced current chief of staff John Kelly is stepping down.
And what better way to ingratiated yourself to Trump, than to grovel?
Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker grovels before President Trump at first Cabinet meeting
Trump’s acting attorney general just humiliated himself with a display of servile groveling
[…]
On Wednesday, during a meeting at the White House, these fears were further amplified by footage of Whitaker prostrating himself at Trump’s feet and lavishly praising him:
Acting AG Whitaker kisses up to Trump for staying in DC over holidays: “Sir, Mr President, I will start by highlighting the fact you stayed in DC over the holidays, giving up Christmas w/your family, New Year’s w/your family… you have demonstrated your dedication to delivering” pic.twitter.com/9Lo2pMocgN
This sort of blind loyalty is dangerous. Whitaker has already attacked special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, warning that any attempt to look into the Trump family’s finances would be a “ red line .” Every time Whitaker grovels to Trump, his ability to oversee that investigation fairly is plunged into grave doubt.
Then there’s this more recent article (yesterday) speaking of the same possibility:
6:00 AM ET
[…]
[…]
Whitaker presented himself to Nadler, a 13-term congressman, with the same aloofness and disdain for tradition that often seems typical of the Trump White House.  And that may have been on purpose. Whitaker, whose tenure ends when Bill Barr is confirmed as attorney general next week, will need a new job.
He has reportedly been considered for the role of Trump’s chief of staff.
Thank you to all who already support our work since we could not exist without your generosity.  If you have not already, please consider supporting us on Patreon to ensure we can continue bringing you the best of independent journalism.
3 Comments on "Matthew Whitaker – Trump’s Next Chief of Staff?"
Notify of new replies to this comment - (on)
Notify of new replies to this comment - (off)
Notify of new replies to this comment - (on)
Notify of new replies to this comment - (off)
  Subscribe  
Vote Up3Vote Down  Reply
Vote Up1Vote Down  Reply
Vote Up0Vote Down  Reply
Email
Thank you to all who already support our work.  We could not exist without your generosity.  If you have not already, please consider supporting us by becoming a Patron to ensure we can continue bringing you the best of independent journalism.
Follow Us
4,358Fans Like
134Followers Follow
9,534Followers Follow
Recent Posts
Daily dose of outrage at what is going on in Washington.
MORE STORIES
