President Donald Trump complained Friday that the "mainstream media" has paid little attention to Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr's assertion in an interview with CBS News that his committee has found no evidence of collusion between the president's 2016 campaign and the Russian government.
"The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between 'Trump' & Russia," Trump wrote Friday on Twitter.
Story Continued Below
The tweets come after Burr (R-N.C.) offered CBS a rare glimpse into the committee's investigation of the 2016 presidential election. Burr said the committee could not conclude there was collusion after interviewing more than 200 witnesses and reviewing more than 300,000 pages over more than two years. Still, the CBS report , published Thursday, revealed Burr felt the implications of the committee's findings could occupy its members for the next decade.
Burr did not officially declare on behalf of the committee there was no collusion between Trump and Russia. He qualified his assessment by adding it was based on the evidence collected so far, and the committee still has a ways to go in its investigation. The senators also found Russian President Vladimir Putin had a "clear preference" for Trump, CBS reported, a fact the president and his allies have disputed.
Email
Sign Up
By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
The committee is independent of special counsel Robert Mueller, who is also investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election as well as allegations of obstruction of justice against the president.
CBS reported cleavages could be forming along partisan lines in the Senate Intelligence Committee over the question of collusion — a breaking point that derailed the House Intelligence Committee's probe, which closed last year under Republican control. The House committee, now with a Democratic majority, has since announced it will reopen its investigation.
Still, Trump presented Burr's message as absolution, and was upset it hasn't been getting more media coverage. In addition to CBS, the story was covered by POLITICO and Reuters , among others.
"It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!" Trump tweeted Friday about the allegations of collusion.
By Rich Lowry
