CBS News
By
Pence wants Congress to ignore Trump's massive corruption.
On Wednesday morning, “CBS This Morning” anchor Jeff Glor asked Vice President Mike Pence about Trump’s attack on congressional oversight during his State of the Union address. Instead of denouncing the transparent attempt to distract from the rampant corruption of the Trump-Pence administration, Pence doubled down on the whining.
Pence echoed Trump’s unfounded complaints about investigations into his corrupt administration, describing such investigations as merely “partisan.”
“Congressional oversight is a part of the checks and balances of our system, but what the president referred to last night was partisan investigations,” Pence said.
“We don’t object to oversight – that’s the proper role of committees in the Congress, but when it takes on a partisan tint, when it seems more intent on becoming a forum for invective against the president and against the administration, the American people expect better.”
Pence’s contention that oversight under the newly Democratic House has been tainted by partisanship is a lie.
In fact, this Congress has not even begun seriously investigating the Trump administration’s abuses because it has been dealing with the fallout from his shutdown of the federal government.
There is a lot to investigate, and when Republicans held the House, they shirked their constitutional duties and ignored Trump corruption . Instead, Republicans worked as Trump’s defenders, blocking attempts to figure out how he and his team have been wasting tax dollars and engaging in underhanded dealings.
Under President Barack Obama those same Republicans engaged in investigation after investigation. They used their congressional power to pursue issues, like Benghazi, in the vain hopes of uncovering scandals that could hurt Democrats. They came up empty .
But now Trump’s corrupt fingerprints are all over a growing roster of issues: His campaign’s involvement with Russian operatives meddling with the election. His use of government resources to go on luxury vacations. His personal profiteering from the presidency. His cavalier approach to disclosing national security secrets to compromised officials (with Pence’s knowledge ).
The list goes on and on.
Already much of Trump’s corruption is under investigation from nonpartisan law enforcement.
Special counsel Robert Mueller is a Republican, heading up the investigation into the Russia issue. Federal prosecutors are investigating Trump’s dirty “charity” and his inaugural committee .
Despite the Trump-Pence protests there are a host of issues to be investigated by Congress. That is their job.
The results of the 2018 election were in large part because voters were tired of Trump’s corruption being allowed to go unchecked.
Pence said, “the American people expect better.” He’s right — that’s why they voted for Democrats.
Published with permission of The American Independent.
TAGS
FOLLOW US
1,572,318Fans Like
78,901Followers Follow
RECENT POSTS
Shareblue Media is an American media company. We tell real-world stories to give voice to the heroes fighting for American values. We are a rapidly growing community — reaching millions per week across platforms — that is optimistic, honest, and unafraid.
MOST POPULAR
