Grasping At Straws: Dems Launch A Whole New Investigation Into Trump
(Tea Party PAC) – On Thursday, the House Democrats launched an investigation into Trump’s tax returns, because of course they did.
As the Mueller investigation continues to turn up blanks, they’ve got to find a new angle with which to take down the President, right?
No law requires a candidate for president to release their tax returns, but that doesn’t matter to the Dems—they’ll do anything to dig up, or even flat-out fabricate, dirt on President Trump.
On Thursday, a Ways and Means oversight subcommittee hearing began building the legal case that Trump was withholding his tax returns and possibly hiding violations of federal tax laws, which could be compromising US interests.
In the hearing, Democrats argued that they have the legal authority to invoke a little-known provision in the federal code which allows their committee Chairman to access private tax information, the New York Times reports.
“What comes next is far less clear. The statute in question — Section 6103 of the federal tax code — gives the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee extraordinary powers to request that the Treasury Department release to him tax information on any filer, including the president. The provision allows the committee to review the tax information privately, but it would have to vote to disclose any return information or findings to the public.
“There is scant precedent for its use to investigate an individual, much less someone of Mr. Trump’s stature. That and an all but certain legal challenge from the administration will most likely leave the outcome to the federal courts.”
Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA), the committee chairman, is working with the House’s general counsel, Doug Letter, to build a legal case that can stand up against a challenge in court, the Times notes.
The Democrats insist they aren’t trying to “get Trump” and that they’re only interested in making sure the law is obeyed.
Right.
Nancy Pelosi claims that Americans “overwhelmingly” want to see the President’s tax returns.
“Overwhelmingly, the public wants to see the president’s tax returns,” she said. “They want to know the truth. They want to know the facts. And he has nothing to hide.”
Republicans in Congress, however, are fighting back, accusing their Democrat counterparts of trying to violate the President’s privacy and thus setting a dangerous precedent.
Trump address the investigation from Twitter Thursday, saying “The Dems and their committees are going nuts.”
“Presidential harassment! It should never be able to happen again!” he added.
….The Dems and their committees are going “nuts.” The Republicans never did this to President Obama, there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!
Comments
Recent Posts
