US President Donald Trump Delivers His Second State Of The Union Address | TIME
US President Donald Trump delivers his second State of the Union Address.
Subscribe to TIME ►► http://po.st/SubscribeTIME
Get closer to the world of entertainment and celebrity news as TIME gives you access and insight on the people who make what you watch, read and share.
Money helps you learn how to spend and invest your money. Find advice and guidance you can count on from how to negotiate, how to save and everything in between.
Find out more about the latest developments in science and technology as TIME’s access brings you to the ideas and people changing our world.
Let TIME show you everything you need to know about drones, autonomous cars, smart devices and the latest inventions which are shaping industries and our way of living
Stay up to date on breaking news from around the world through TIME’s trusted reporting, insight and access
CONNECT WITH TIME
Magazine: http://time.com/magazine/
Newsletter: time.com/newsletter
ABOUT TIME
TIME brings unparalleled insight, access and authority to the news. A 24/7 news publication with nearly a century of experience, TIME’s coverage shapes how we understand our world. Subscribe for daily news, interviews, science, technology, politics, health, entertainment, and business updates, as well as exclusive videos from TIME’s Person of the Year, TIME 100 and more created by TIME’s acclaimed writers, producers and editors.
US President Donald Trump Delivers His Second State Of The Union Address
Legal Immig on February 7, 2019 at 6:20 am
My sympathies to the (D) presidential nominee in 2020.   Trump has a treasure trove of
video proof of what democrats are REALLY about to show the voters.
Bu.but. but.. the overstay visa..- every democrats.
TSIXGaming on February 7, 2019 at 11:11 am
according to the clown news network, russia is tryna increase americas border security and make america great again
Trump is a hero.
J T on February 7, 2019 at 1:14 pm
Watch the entire SOTU address. Note ALL the things that Democrats DID NOT applaud.
Then ask yourselves, are THESE the people you want leading us?
Very good!
2:53:30 The Address begins
very good singer and musician>>>>>> http://bit.ly/kristoferr
George Stephenson on February 7, 2019 at 3:52 pm
Trumpo the Clown is just a two bit cowboy riding a quarter horse with his bone spurs on and that will be his net worth when Mueller is done with him….$0.25
Trump 2020…
Socialism is slavery relabeled.
David Sharf on February 7, 2019 at 4:39 pm
Subway System in New York City is in shambles. Who? and when someone will address this pressing issue?
How long New Yorker's have to endure this dilapidated failed Subway System?
There is an urgent need with large capital to fix this Antique Subway.
Yagnia G. on February 7, 2019 at 5:08 pm
Republicans and Democrats are both wrong and right. Me stepping out of the box thinking were is the real problem here. Both parties have  killed innocents and thousands of lives. Both parties have done things wrong, have cheat etc. But when it come to choices wish one out weights in favor more for the people and works for its people. What it comes to what its right is that every other president have represent the country and at the end dividing the country even more.  More in unity showing a speech making more plans on how the country can stand up as a nation. For the well being of both the rich and the poor. Not using a speech against its own people just to get a vote. Mr. Trump have been deceiving people and is a constant liar. Using the word of socialism and using like its Venezuela confusing the people more for what the speech was for. It dose not matter for me what party he is in. If he is a Republican or a Democrat ether way I would not ever be in favor of him. The fact he have been using this plat form to make his own agenda of him getting more richer using America is really scary and everyone should be scared too. Mr. Trump does not really care about Us.
Johnny on February 7, 2019 at 5:14 pm
why did Nancy clap and stand up ? other Dem did not clap or stand up
Purr Fect on February 7, 2019 at 6:16 pm
Trump struggles to read Stephen Miller's speech from a teleprompter and his TDS afflicted supporters cream their pants.
Donald trump licks balls lol
Dan on February 7, 2019 at 9:31 pm
Contact your Congressman and Senators. They swore an oath to uphold the
Constitution. Article 1 is clear – Founders intended Government to be
operated on a yearly basis. The Founders intended Congress to over-ride
any Presidential Veto by providing for 2/3 majority vote to pass
veto-proof legislation. As such, tell your Senators and Congressional
Representative to send veto-proof Continuing Resolution ("CR") to keep
government operating on a yearly basis. If this action was done just one
time, all Presidents would learn there is no way to shut down the
government as a negotiating tool. Government operations are supposed to
be non-partisan. The Hatch Act prohibits government employees from
political activity at work! The President, through the Office of
Management & Budget {"OMB") and the Office of Personnel Management
("OPM"), is violating the Hatch Act when he directs the Executive Branch
to take political partisan action – shutting down the government to
teach everyone a political lesson – involving government operations.
And, the President is violating the Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA")
and the 13th Amendment, when he compels work without pay (compensation).
And, Congress and the Supreme Court are both complicit in these crimes!
Congress because they failed to pass veto-proof CR to keep government
open and the Supreme Court because they are allowing Executive Branch to
compel work without pay – Court should issue Order prohibiting
employees from working without pay – which would mean a REAL shutdown.
Get involved. Send the President and Congress a message – stop the
shutdowns because they are unlawful!!!
SushiWrap on February 7, 2019 at 10:10 pm
This doesn’t have much to do with the viddo but,you cannot reason with trump supporters. I do not care what your background is, what your beliefs are, where you come from, I believe in numbers and facts. If you cannot see that the man you voted for is consistently factually incorrect, impolite, and a genuinely stupid person, than I am sorry to say but you are what is defined as a parasite. You bring nothing to the world population but depend on us. Once again, I am not in anyway saying that you are not entitled to your own opinion. I am simply saying that if you are too blinded by anger and hate to see that donald trump is everything i said he was, then you do not believe in reality, and that, I personally believe makes you stupid.
For people wanting proof that Donald Trump is factually incorrect :
Joseph Mingle on February 7, 2019 at 11:23 pm
USA Im am going to lay out the plan. You are going to be socialists. Get used to that idea. The Democrats want open borders and mass immigration because those Hispanics are only ever going to vote blue, big government, and for people that look and talk like them. They are never going to be "blue eyed American Joe" no matter how much you think they will…
Grumpy on February 8, 2019 at 12:30 am
Drumpf does not have and probably never will have the mental stability…. OR THE INTELLECT to have come up with all that verbosity' in his 'Address to the Nation'. It would be interesting to know just how many 'speech writers' co-operated in putting it all together.. and just how much it cost the taxpayers to 'make him look/sound 'great'
John Peter on February 8, 2019 at 2:21 am
Always talking about China China China. R u a son of China? And I Kim jong en would.never. Be ur alliance
We love you trump from argentina!
I haven't seen so many democrats wearing white since the K.K.K.!
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Posts
