Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Pro-Trump Twitter figure Jacob Wohl was accused of defrauding Arizona investors
Jacob Wohl recently ignited a social media storm when his efforts to smear Special Counsel Robert Mueller appeared to be exposed as a hoax.
Post to Facebook
Pro-Trump Twitter figure Jacob Wohl was accused of defrauding Arizona investors Jacob Wohl recently ignited a social media storm when his efforts to smear Special Counsel Robert Mueller appeared to be exposed as a hoax. Check out this story on azcentral.com: https://www.azcentral.com/story/money/business/consumers/2018/11/02/hipster-coffee-shop-guy-jacob-wohl-said-defraud-arizona-investors/1838652002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Pro-Trump Twitter figure Jacob Wohl was accused of defrauding Arizona investors
Lorraine Longhi , Arizona Republic Published 3:10 p.m. MT Nov. 2, 2018 | Updated 3:30 p.m. MT Nov. 2, 2018
Jacob Wohl, a 20-year-old pro-Trump Twitter personality, misled Arizona investors from 2015-2016 in an attempt to defraud them, according to a cease and desist order filed by the Arizona Corporation Commission last year.
(Photo11: Via Twitter)
Jacob Wohl, a 20-year-old pro-Trump Twitter personality whose recent efforts to smear Special Counsel Robert Mueller appear to have been exposed as a hoax, was accused by Arizona authorities of defrauding investors in 2015 and 2016.
A 2017 Arizona Corporation Commission  cease-and-desist order  leveled the allegations against Wohl, finding he violated securities law by misleading investors about how much of their money would be at risk, and misrepresenting his company's size. The commission ordered him to pay $32,919 in restitution and penalties totaling $5,000.
Wohl's attorney  told the commission  in 2017 that Wohl was unable to make the first payment and asked for a four-week continuance.
"I'm wondering why we're going through this exercise, and why you think your client is going to make payment on a later date if he's not able to make payment today," Commissioner Boyd Dunn said.
"This is a relatively small amount," Wohl's attorney said. "I know you guys have seen hundreds of thousands of dollars for these types of cases."
Dunn replied, "It's not a small amount to the investor. So don't belittle it."
The commission voted to give Wohl a four-week continuance, with the remaining balance to be paid in monthly installments of $1,371.61 beginning Dec. 1, 2017.
Wohl has not paid any of the money he owes the commission, according to a commission spokeswoman. The commission has referred the matter to the Attorney General’s Office collections unit.
Wohl neither admitted to nor disputed the findings in the consent order. He also cannot make public statements denying any finding of the decision, according to the consent order.
Neither Wohl nor his attorney immediately responded to a request for comment.
Was Jacob Wohl trying to discredit the special counsel?
Wohl became the focus of a social media firestorm this week when the liberal-leaning political website Hill Reporter  accused him of being behind false claims of sexual assault against Mueller, who is investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
NEWSLETTERS
Get the Business Morning News newsletter delivered to your inbox
We're sorry, but something went wrong
The latest local and national business headlines, delivered in the morning.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Business Morning News
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
NBC News reported that multiple reporters had been contacted by a woman who said she had been offered money to say Mueller had harassed her.
Wohl denied involvement in any scheme to pay women to make false allegations against Mueller.
NBC, however, discovered Wohl's email in the internet-domain records for a private company that was investigating the accusations against Mueller, Surefire Intelligence. 
Also, phone calls to a number listed on the Surefire Intelligence website went to a voicemail belonging to Wohl's mother, NBC reported.
PUBLIC STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO A FLURRY OF PRESS INQUIRIES: Surefire Intelligence does not comment on current, past or future operations, nor
the lack thereof. Our firm assists businesses and individuals with complex and sensitive matters, many of which are (1/2)
'I just left a hipster coffee shop'
Wohl, who lives in Southern California, was already a controversial figure on social media.
He has been the subject of a viral Twitter meme mocking Wohl's repeated claims of visiting "hipster coffee shops" around Los Angelesand overhearing conversations in which anonymous customers are discussing their support of Trump or opposition to his enemies.
I just left a hipster coffee shop in downtown LA. There was a group of young Democrats murmuring to each other that they know the "Suspicious Packages" were an inside job to make Republicans look bad
I just left a hipster coffee shop in the Fairfax District, here in Los Angeles. I can tell you one thing: Jewish support for President Trump is higher than ever!
I just a left a hipster coffee shop. It was packed with liberals, whispering amongst each other about what a commendable job President Trump did with Vladimir Putin this morning in Helsinki — America is PROUD! 
I was in a hipster coffee shop (safe space) here in LA and the libs were whispering to each other how @realDonaldTrump is doing great for the economy, got them a raise at work and will definitely be re-elected in 2020
Even coffee shop hipster liberals are marveling at President Trump's success with North Korea
Even coffee-shop-hipster liberals are in awe at President Trump's diplomatic breakthroughs all around the world
— Jacob Wohl (@JacobAWohl) May 10, 2018
Arizona allegations against Wohl hedge fund
Wohl's troubles in Arizona began in 2015, when two residents of the state contacted Wohl after seeing his media appearances.
The Arizona residents invested in his hedge fund, according to the Corporation Commission.
Wohl's investment company, Wohl Capital Investment Group LLC, traded with the investors' money in exchange for management fees.
The commission found Wohl won the business of at least one of his investors by misrepresenting his company's size.
The investor was also told that only 20 percent of invested capital would be at risk. However, in January 2016, Wohl ceased operations and returned approximately 60 percent of the investors' capital, the commission said.
In 2015, Wohl began looking for investors for a new hedge fund, NeX Capital Management LLC. Wohl solicited investments in the fund from two Arizonans by misrepresenting the risk involved, the commission found.
While the Arizona investors entered written agreements with NeX, both terminated the investment process before NeX engaged in trading on their behalf.
Wohl also began posting advertisements on Craigslist Phoenix in 2016, looking for investors in a house-flipping business. The commission documents say the Craigslist advertisements misrepresented the size of Wohl's company, Montgomery Assets Inc., and the experience of its employees and risk associated with the investment. No Arizona residents invested in Montgomery Assets.
In June, Wohl tweeted calling the Arizona Corporation Commission  a "racketeering organization full of Angry Democrats," citing an article detailing allegations that Corporation Commission head Gary Pierce, who is a Republican, was accepting money in exchange for favorable votes affecting a utilities company. When Pierce was tried on those allegations, jurors deadlocked and the judge declared a mistrial.
The Arizona Corporation Commission turned out to be a racketeering organization full of Angry Democrats!
New Emails Show ACC Head Gary Pierce did political work for Arizona utility he was supposed to regulate https://t.co/r7AD2cZ0IS
Reach the reporter at  Lorraine.Longhi@gannett.com . Follow her on Twitter:  @lolonghi .
READ MORE:
 
NEWSLETTERS
Get the Business Morning News newsletter delivered to your inbox
We're sorry, but something went wrong
The latest local and national business headlines, delivered in the morning.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Business Morning News
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Feb. 21, 2019, 4 a.m.
Subscribe Now
