Conservative Media
Trump: Here Are New Key Findings About ‘Russia Collusion’ Media Is Ignoring
Popular Videos
In a series of tweets Thursday and Friday, President Trump brought some attention to revelations about “Russia collusion” he suggested the media was deliberately failing to report: The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee said Thursday that after a nearly two-year investigation, they’d found no evidence of “collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.”
While there’s no evidence of collusion, a curious incident related to the investigation has come to light: The Democrat heading up the collusion investigation in the House was caught hanging out with the head of Fusion GPS, the oppo research firm hired by the Democrats that produced the infamous, still “unverified” Steele dossier.
“Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion,” Trump tweeted Thursday night, quoting Burr: “We don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.”
Early Friday, Trump continued the thread (tweets below): “Not only did Senator Burr’s Committee find No Collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia, it’s important because they interviewed 200 witnesses and 300,000 pages of documents, & the Committee has direct access to intelligence information that’s Classified,” he wrote, crediting Fox’s Gregg Jarrett.
Citing a report by The Hill’s John Solomon, Trump added: “Now we find out that Adam Schiff [chair of the House Intelligence Committtee] was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion, who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff.”
Trump then blasted the media for ignoring the committee’s findings: “The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between ‘Trump’ & Russia….I
t is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!”
Trump’s point about Schiff and Simpson is a reference to a report by Solomon published Thursday that is starting to gain some attention. Some photos from July 2018 have emerged showing Schiff meeting with Simpson, “one of the key and most controversial figures in the Russia collusion scandal.”
While both of them insisted to Solomon through spokesmen that the meeting was surrendipitous and “brief,” Solomon offers some skepticism and underscores the “questions of hypocrisy” it raises for Schiff.
“At the time of the encounter, Simpson was an important witness in the House Intelligence Committee probe who had given sworn testimony about alleged, but still unproven, collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign,” Solomon explains.
“Simpson ran the firm hired by Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic Party to find dirt on Trump in Moscow. He employed retired British intelligence operative Christopher Steele, whose infamous and unverified dossier became the main evidence for the FBI’s probe of the Trump campaign, particularly the surveillance warrant against Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.”
By the time of the meeting, Schiff’s committee “had already received evidence from a senior Justice Department official, Bruce Ohr, that called into question Simpson’s testimony to lawmakers,” specifically that he hadn’t begun meeting with Ohr until after Thanksgiving 2016 — after the FBI had begun investigating “collusion” and after Trump had won the election.
But Ohr’s evidence showed that Simpson had actually met with him in August 2016, “well before the election and during a time when Steele was helping the FBI start an investigation into Trump,” Solomon points out.
Both Simpson and Schiff’s representatives told Solomon that the discussion was “brief” and didn’t cover anything important, but Solomon notes that Schiff had a “far higher standard” a couple years ago when he was calling for the investigation of Republican then-committtee chair Devin Nunes “over his meetings with national security council officials at the Trump White House.”
Below are Trump’s tweets on the issue:
Not only did Senator Burr’s Committee find No Collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia, it’s important because they interviewed 200 witnesses and 300,000 pages of documents, & the Committee has direct access to intelligence information that’s Classified. @GreggJarrett
Now we find out that Adam Schiff was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion, who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff. John Solomon of @thehill
The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between “Trump” & Russia….
…It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!
February 9, 2019 at 8:20 pm
This accusation against. Trump was done to take the heat off Hiliary Clinton and the DNC. Now is the time for the DOJ and FBI to go after the real criminals in Congress.But we know the FBI will not report the truth so it really would be a waste of Tax dollars.What a low state this country has fallen to.
February 9, 2019 at 8:23 pm
We knew the collusion was in Hillary’s camp and still they continue with the investigation that never should have been. What happen to the law of forbidden fruit? Because without fake dossier there would never have been an Mueller investigation.
February 9, 2019 at 9:41 pm
General modus operandi of the Democratic party….if you can’t dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bullshit.
This entire “investigation” (witch hunt) was invented to discredit Donald Trump and undermine his agenda of prosperity and honor for the USA. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to realize that all of the investigative team is comprised of Democrats and their lackies, many of whom will lie, cheat & steal to produce the desired outcome. In a fair, balanced & honest investigation, the team would be made up of individuals from both political parties and information sought would have only to do with the collusion factor. Mueller & his band of merrymen have meandered all over the place, changing their focus to whatever they could find to create a diversion from the truth (that there is NO COLLUSION involving Trump & Russa. They have all but forgotten about Hillary, Obama and the gang of real criminals. Justice means taking down Trump’s administration, regardless of how much they have to invent or lie about.
Time to put a lid on this, open a full and legal investigation into the previous administration’s activities and bring the TRUE CRIMINALS to justice.
February 9, 2019 at 10:05 pm
No Trump said he was going to drain the swamp and that my friends scared a lot of money hungry gutted scum in politics on both sides, so they had to do something to stop him but thank the LORD it is failing and hopefully all the truth comes out and all the c–ts get jailed for life
February 10, 2019 at 12:50 am
Trump will come out the winner. There is also the Inspector General’s report yet to come. And one from Huber in Utah…plus Mueller. And the best part, we have a new AJ coming in next week or so. Get rid of that Rosenstein. Who is up to his eyeballs in the whole mess. I hope against hope, now the real crooks will be investigation soon. Of course this is not the first time Mueller has been called in front of the FISA court for holding out information. And I hope they nail him again. Maybe this AJ will charge him for it.
February 10, 2019 at 2:19 am
it’s way past time to hold all those RADICAL LAWLESS COMMUNIST DEMORATS ACCOUNTABLE AND LOCK HEM UP.
starting with the LEAD CRIMINAL AND TRAITOR AND FRAUD THE MUSLIM OBAMA,
February 10, 2019 at 3:45 am
The most damaging aspect for the left is their lack of gray matter.Now is the time to prosecute every liar involved in the hoax.MAGA!
February 10, 2019 at 9:35 pm
President Trump is wrong. The media will NEVER admit that it was a witch hunt without any merit whatsoever. Their heads are so buried in their own hatred for the person that defeated hilliary that they will never admit to the truth. But one can hope.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
