Liberal Reactions to Trump Speech Range from Snide to Condescending
Liberal Reactions to Trump Speech Range from Snide to Condescending
Editor: Draco Copper | Tactical Investor
We discovered that our readers loved the concept of us posting excerpts to other interesting articles. In keeping with that theme, we think you will find the following article to be of interest. We cover a wide array of topics as in today’s world of finance everything is interrelated.   Crowd Psychology states that if you focus on only one topic it’s like looking at the tree only and forgetting that it’s part of the forest.
No one can claim to have mastered the markets fully and anyone that does lay claim to such a title should be avoided like the plague.   For example, after QE all the rules changed and many time-tested indicators simply ceased to work because the operating environment had changed forever. The markets were suddenly hit with a force that they had never been hit with before.  A fed that was determined to destroy any shred of free market forces left in the market.  This surprised everyone, and it even caught us off guard initially.  Many so-called experts refuse to accept that they made a mistake or could be wrong.  Bull Markets Vs Bear Markets & Arrogance
Reviews of President Donald Trump’s speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, demonstrate that the liberal mainstream media won’t stop anytime soon in trying to contradict the White House on the booming economy.
CNN complained the pro-business “America First” address sounded more like a “Chamber of Commerce” speech.
Reuters also took the opportunity to note that U.S. economic growth did not hit 3 percent growth in the last three months of 2017, a goal Trump wanted. Federal officials reported Friday morning that the U.S. economy grew at 2.6 percent in the final quarter. The number will be revised at a later date, and historically it is not unusual for such figures to be raised once more data are available.
“Trump goes to Davos, having insulted many of the world leaders there, to tell them to put ‘America First,’” tweeted Schiff. “Apparently this is the difference between a really smart diplomatic strategy and one that is only ‘like, really smart.’”
 
No one expected President Trump to win over his skeptics in one speech. And judging by some of the congressional reaction to his first State of the Union address on Tuesday, it’s possible he exacerbated the divisions. Democrats largely sat stone-faced as Trump called for unity, then pushed a sharply conservative wish list for 2018, which included curbing legal immigration and welfare programs.
There’s no assigned seating for the State of the Union. Some lawmakers get there well in advance to reserve aisle seats and be seen greeting the president like their long-lost friend. Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen, leaning into Trump, is the non-voting representative from American Samoa. Next to her is Republican Rep. Virginia Foxx of North Carolina.
 
CBS News’ Gayle King may have provided the most honest moment of the night when she said, “Many of the Democrats, at many times, looked like they had bitten a couple of lemons, even when he was saying things most people would agree with.”
MSNBC’s Joy Reid was on a combative Twitter rampage throughout the evening, accusing Trump of leading a “culture war,” but one tweet she sent essentially denounced church, family, policy, the national anthem and even the military.
Not to be outdone, CNN’s Jim Acosta tweeted his own take on Trump’s memorable line.
“Of course Americans are dreamers. But Dreamers think of themselves as Americans because they’ve been living here since they were children, brought to the U.S. through no fault of their own,” Acosta wrote.
 
 
2018
