NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Search
By RICHARD D. HYLTON
About the Archive
This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996.              To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.
Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems.             Please send reports of such problems to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.
March 19, 1992, Page 00001 The New York Times Archives
Donald J. Trump has reached an agreement to turn over 49 percent of his interest in the landmark Plaza Hotel in Manhattan to a group of banks led by Citibank, people involved in the talks said yesterday.
The nearly completed deal is one of the last in a long line of debt restructurings that Mr. Trump has reached with his creditors. It would cancel $125 million of Mr. Trump's personally guaranteed debt, plus accrued interest, and would give the developer more favorable terms on the remaining $300 million of mortgage debt.
The Plaza deal is similar to other Trump deals in swapping mortgage debt for equity, and it would leave Mr. Trump in control of the hotel, although his equity would be heavily encumbered by bank liens.
To keep control of the Plaza, as well as two Atlantic City casinos, Mr. Trump must meet certain business projections over the next several years. If he failed to meet the projections and make the required interest payments, he would lose control of his remaining stake in the hotel. Subject to a Lien
Advertisement
The deal, which was reached last week, values the Plaza at about $260 million. Mr. Trump paid $409 million for the hotel in 1988 and will retain a $300 million mortgage on it. In 1990, the Trump Organization estimated the value of the Plaza at $830 million, while the Kenneth Leventhal Company, which was retained by Mr. Trump, put the value at $413 million to $500 million.
"The deal has been agreed upon by the whole group of banks and Mr. Trump, and it is 49 percent for the banks and 51 percent for Trump," said Richard Wilhelm, president of the Plaza Hotel, yesterday.
The banks and Mr. Trump still have to sign a final agreement for the deal to take effect.
Despite the formidable array of problems and the billions in debt facing Mr. Trump, he has managed to convince scores of creditors that they should grant him more time in which to try to increase the value of his deeply indebted assets and that they should release him from his guarantees for hundreds of millions of dollars of debt.
In the case of the Penn Yards, a 76-acre tract of undeveloped land on the West Side of Manhattan, Mr. Trump has been able to improve the value by negotiating for zoning approval with city officials and community groups.
If the Plaza proposal goes through, Mr. Trump will be personally liable for at least $115 million in debt, down from roughly $900 million in 1990.
But Mr. Trump is far from out of the woods. In June 1993, about $350 million in mortgage debt will come due and it is unclear whether the banks will roll over the debts or demand payment. The $300 million mortgage on the Plaza comes due in 1995. In addition, Mr. Trump's $115 million of personally guaranteed debt matures in 1995. Whether he will be able to pay that plus tens of millions more that will have come due by then is anyone's guess. Eleventh-Hour Negotiations
Newsletter Sign Up
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You will receive emails containing news content, updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time.
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
You are already subscribed to this email.
For two years, Mr. Trump has faced 11th-hour negotiations to shore up his empire, which has been crumbling as a result of his heavy borrowing to buy high-profile assets at inflated prices during the 1980's. With the collapse of real estate prices at the end of the decade and the troubles in the gaming and airline industries that were aggravated by the recession, Mr. Trump became trapped in a cash squeeze and was finally rescued by banks that stood to lose hundreds of millions of dollars if he was forced into bankruptcy.
Between bondholders of his Atlantic City casinos and the banks that liberally lent him hundreds of millions of dollars, Mr. Trump and the top executives of the Trump Organization managed to cobble together a series of deals that give him more time to improve the performance and value of some of his assets.
Advertisement
Banks have also taken back some assets in lieu of the debt on them. Among these are the Trump Shuttle, which USAir is now operating; the Trump Princess Yacht; a 50 percent interest in the Grand Hyatt hotel in midtown Manhattan; a 28 percent stake in Alexander's department store; three Atlantic City land parcels, and hundreds of New York condominiums in the Trump Palace and another Manhattan building.  Action at the Casinos
In addition, Mr. Trump has swapped 50 percent of Trump's Castle casino and 50 percent of the Trump Taj Mahal, two Atlantic City casinos, for more favorable debt terms granted by holders of junk bonds that he sold to finance the casinos.
In the case of the Plaza Hotel, the proposed deal underscores the developer's difficulties. He bought the hotel for about $409 million in 1988, or about 25 times the hotel's 1988 cash flow of $16 million, from the Robert M. Bass Group of Fort Worth. With accrued interest and other borrowings, the total debt on the property before this latest deal exceeded $430 million and interest was accruing at a floating rate.
The new deal would leave the original $300 million mortgage and its floating-rate debt in place, but it would allow Mr. Trump to pay as little as 5 percent interest and accrue the balance. By trading the personally guaranteed $125 million debt for 49 percent of his equity in the hotel, and through other such deals, Mr. Trump is trying to clear the way for a financial comeback. Remaining Questions
Final details of the new partnership agreement are still being worked out. It is not known whether the banks will be free to sell their 49 percent equity interest in the Plaza.
The Plaza, which is rated as one of New York's best hotels and has been performing strongly for the last few years, has not been able to generate enough cash to make its debt payments for several years now. In 1990, interest payments on the acquisition debt cost about $41.3 million, but the hotel had only $21 million in cash flow. Last year, the hotel's cash flow totaled $17.6 million, while the total accrued debt-service cost was about $42 million.
This year, Mr. Wilhelm estimates, the hotel will generate nearly $21 million in cash flow before its debt-service cost, which will be about $15 million.
A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 1992, on Page D00001 of the National edition with the headline: Debt Deal For Trump On Plaza. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
