At the National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday, abortion was still on President Trump’s mind. After taking an intense stand against Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam and the extremist legislation just passed by New York at the State of the Union, Trump told the gathered attendees at the breakfast that it was imperative for the United States to forge a new respect for life, even when it has yet to be born.
“We must build a culture that cherishes dignity and sanctity of innocent human life,” Trump said at the Washington D.C. event. “All children, born and unborn, are made in the holy image of God. Every life is sacred, and every soul is a precious gift from heaven. As the Lord says in Jeremiah, ‘before I formed you in the womb, I knew you –before you were born, I set you apart.’”
Trump has taken a renewed interest in the abortion issue after the ghastly remarks made by Northam, which appeared to advocate for the extermination of a child born alive.
“There could be no greater contrast to the beautiful image of a mother holding her infant child than the chilling displays our nation saw in recent days,” Trump said at his State of the Union address. “Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments from birth. These are living, feeling, beautiful babies who will never get the chance to share their love and dreams with the world.
“To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking Congress to pass legislation to prohibit late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother’s womb. Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life,” he continued.
Unfortunately, it also came to pass this week that Sen. Ben Sasse, merely trying to pass legislation that emphasizes legal punishment for a doctor who callously allows a baby to die after birth, was blocked from pursuing a vote by Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA). Proving once and for all that Northam’s remarks weren’t just an accidental slip of the tongue, but were indeed a preview of what we can expect from this modern iteration of the Democratic Party.
It’s going to get uglier before it gets better, but we can at least hope that we finally have a Supreme Court whose majority understands that there IS NO “constitutional right” to kill your unborn child. Maybe we’ll finally see some meaningful, and wonderful, changes to the law.
What do you think?
WHAT KIND OF “CIVILIZED” PEOPLE ARE WE DEALIG WITH HERE?
AND TALK ABOUT A SLIPPERY SLOPE…, I GUESS OBAMY’S DEATH PANELS IN OBAMYCARE ARE ALIVE AND WELL?
AT WHAT POINT IS MURDER “NOT OKAY” WITH THESE PEOPLE??
Democrats fight to legalize killing babies, pre-born and after entering this world alive, but they also fight to terminate the death penalty for those who take a live of another grown human being.
Are Democrats attempting to return to the the Stone Age again, uncontrolled survival of the fittest or most ruthless??
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
 ×  4  = 
Loading…
Forgot your password?
Enter your account data and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Username or Email Address
