Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
1
4
President Trump on Saturday zinged Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) hours after she officially launched her run for the highest office in the land.
“Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he tweeted, using his controversial nickname for Warren.
“Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!”
Earlier in the day, Warren described the Trump administration as “the most corrupt in living memory.”
She also called for big changes in economic inequality, political corruption and criminal justice.
“This is the fight of our lives, the fight to build an America where dreams are possible, an America that works for everyone,” she told a bundled-up crowd in Lawrence, Mass.
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Sen. Warren officially kicked off her campaign for president earlier Saturday with a speech calling for big changes in economic inequality, political corruption and criminal justice.
“This is the fight of our lives, the fight to build an America where dreams are possible, an America that works for everyone,” she told the bundled-up crowd in Lawrence, Mass.
She laid out policy goals like ending lobbying and taking on Wall Street banks as she painted a picture of a broken political system that caters to the rich and powerful.
“So today our government works just great, great for oil companies, defense contractors, great for private prisons, great for Wall Street banks and hedge funds,” she said. “Its just not working great for anyone else.
“When government works only for the wealthy and the well-connected, that is corruption plain and simple, and we need to call it out.”
The 69-year-old pol also took aim at President Trump, calling his administration the “most corrupt in living memory.”
The build-up to her announcement was marred in recent weeks as she apologized for claiming Native American identity on a 1980s registration card with the State Bar of Texas.
Trump, who has repeatedly mocked Warren’s claims to Native American heritage by calling her “Pocahontas,” pounced on her candidacy through a spokesman.
“Elizabeth Warren has already been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected,” said Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale.
Share this:
Now On
Post Digital Network
© 2019 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | Terms of Use | Privacy | Your Ad Choices | Sitemap
News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
click to copy
