Democratic Senator Stands Up, Gives Trump a Wink During SOTU
Doug Mills-Pool / Getty ImagesU.S. President Donald Trump, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Mike Pence looking on, delivers the State of the Union address in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives at the U.S. Capitol Building on February 5, 2019 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Doug Mills-Pool / Getty Images)
West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin not only stood up, applauded and smiled when President Donald Trump touted booming American energy production, but he also gave the president a wink of approval.
Manchin was one of the only Democrats to stand when Trump said “the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world.”
Manchin stood up in front of a group of female Democratic lawmakers who did not look thrilled.
Advertisement - story continues below
Yes
No
Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use .
You’re logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.
Manchin, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, has been supportive of Trump administration efforts to roll back restrictive energy policies, including on the coal industry.
Indeed, Energy Department forecasters see the U.S. becoming “energy independent” in 2020 as exports and production boom.
Advertisement - story continues below
Manchin’s standing ovation for Trump’s energy remarks stood out in stark contrast to the female Democratic lawmakers seated behind him who did not stand and cheer.
One of those lawmakers, New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, has positioned herself as a staunch opponent of fossil fuels and will release her “Green New Deal” legislation as soon as next week.
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.
We are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards .
Contact
Founded by Tucker Carlson, a 25-year veteran of print and broadcast media, and Neil Patel, former chief policy adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, The Daily Caller News Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit providing original investigative reporting from a team of professional reporters that operates for the public benefit.
* Name
* Email
* Message
Success!
23k Reactions
40k Reactions
7.7k Reactions
1.7k Reactions
2.2k Reactions
47k Reactions
28k Reactions
2.2k Reactions
Trending Right Now
Editor's Pick
×
