Jan. 14, 2019
Trump’s Insults Toward Elizabeth Warren Are Racist. His Policies Toward Native Americans Are Worse.
The Chippewa Indian food distr​ibution site in Sault Ste. Mar​ie, Michigan, on Dec. 31, 2018. Photo: Brittany Greeson/The New York Times/Redux
President Trump on Sunday tweeted a clip from Senator Elizabeth Warren’s December 31 Instagram livestream with the caption, “If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!” Trump’s post had nothing to do with the substance of the video — Warren spent it drinking beer, answering questions from viewers, and describing her New Year’s Eve tradition of watching the 1942 film Casablanca with her husband — but rather sought to exploit what he saw as another opportunity to insult the Massachusetts Democrat, who in December formed an exploratory committee to run for president in 2020.
Broadsides deriding Warren as “Pocahontas” are not new for Trump, who has dedicated at least 16 tweets and parts of several campaign rallies to their pursuit. The inclusion of Little Bighorn and Wounded Knee is new, if surprisingly so — one could argue that the grab bag of incoherent Native American references from which the president draws was incomplete without them. A small outcry ensued nonetheless. Much of it focused, justifiably, on Trump making light of historical events in which hundreds of people lost their lives and, in the case of Wounded Knee, U.S. cavalrymen slaughtered upwards of 150 Lakota men, women, and children in cold blood (some estimates have this number above 300). Less apparent was criticism of the effect the president’s policies have on living Native Americans, for whom his callous and austere governance poses a more immediate threat than does insulting their forebears.
The latest iteration of this threat stems from Trump’s government shutdown, which is now the longest on American record. Initially viewed by his administration as leverage to force congressional Democrats to fund his U.S.-Mexico border wall, the 24-day standoff has both failed to accomplish its goal and resulted in more than 800,000 federal employees being furloughed or forced to work without pay. It has accomplished this by leaving much of the federal government unfunded, in part or in full, including several agencies vital to Americans’ health and safety needs, like the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration . Equally troubling — and less-widely wept over — are reports from many of the country’s Native American reservations, which paint a dire portrait of already-impoverished communities being sapped of their health care, food, and law enforcement resources due to the lack of funding.
A sampling, first from the New York Times :
On the Navajo Nation, a mostly rural reservation of red rock canyon that spans parts of New Mexico, Arizona and Utah, the government shutdown has already been difficult, said Russell Begaye, the Navajo Nation’s president.
A blanket of snow has covered the region, but roads are unplowed because federal maintenance has stopped. Many people are now trapped in their homes, unable to make the 20- or 50-mile journey to buy water, groceries and medicine, said Mr. Begaye.
In New Mexico, a lone police officer patrolled a Native American reservation [Mescalero Apache] larger in size than Houston on a shift that normally has three people, responding to multiple car wrecks during a snowstorm, emergency calls and requests for welfare checks …
Clara Pratte’s 68-year-old mother had surgery to clear up vision in one of her eyes earlier this month, but the Navajo woman wasn’t able to get a referral from IHS for a follow-up appointment after pressure built up in her eye …
In Washington state, the Seattle Indian Health Board plans to cut services if the federal shutdown continues … Endangered programs include an in-patient treatment center for chemical dependency and a traditional medicine program that incorporates a sweat lodge, storytelling and drumming to help people in recovery, government affairs officer Aren Sparck said.
These and other basic services are funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which is housed in the Department of Interior and has been decimated by the shutdown to the tune of 2,295 furloughed employees out of 4,057. Of the countless painful ironies of this freeze is one rooted in history — that the very existence of such benefits for Native tribes was originally meant as a trade-off for the vast swaths of land the U.S. government acquired from them over the centuries. “The federal government owes us this: We prepaid with millions of acres of land,” Aaron Payment, the chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, told the Times . “We don’t have the right to take back that land, so we expect the federal government to fulfill its treaty and trust responsibility.” The shutdown is costing Payment’s tribe roughly $100,000 per day in services undelivered, the Times adds, including money that would normally go toward keeping local health clinics staffed.
Trump is totally uninterested in easing up on Warren, who has for years claimed Native American heritage and sought to prove it by taking a DNA test last year. Warren’s decision drew rebuke from progressives and some Native tribes, including the Cherokee Nation : “Sovereign tribal nations set their own legal requirements for citizenship, and while DNA tests can be used to determine lineage, such as paternity to an individual, it is not evidence for tribal affiliation,” Chuck Hoskin Jr., the tribe’s secretary of state, said in October. The issue of what metrics determine Native heritage is well worth taking up. It is also not an issue with which Trump is actually concerned. Shutdown aside, the president’s record regarding Native peoples is marked by hundreds of millions of dollars in proposed budget cuts to the Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Education. These proposed cuts have been frequently overridden by bipartisan efforts in Congress, but the message from the White House is clear: One need not look as far back as Wounded Knee, Little Bighorn, or the Virginia colonies to find reason for outrage at the president’s racist insults. Trump’s policies do more than enough of the heavy lifting, and they are taking shape as we speak.
Tags:
Most Viewed Stories
Most Viewed Stories
25 mins ago
For the first time in Gallup’s polling , a majority of black respondents say black-white relations are somewhat or very bad
12:47 p.m.
Sean Spicer switches sides
Surprise, surprise: Sean Spicer is now officially a member of the mainstream media. The former White House press secretary has signed a contract to serve as a special correspondent for syndicated newsmagazine show Extra.
“When they pitched this to me, I said, ‘Yeah, I love the idea,’” Spicer told The Hollywood Reporter on Wednesday.
Spicer, who famously tangled with television reporters during his stint in the White House, is beginning with a special series that focuses on the personal lives and views of D.C. insiders, including some of his former Trump administration colleagues. 
Most Popular
12:03 p.m.
The Trump administration is making it more difficult to become a citizen. Probably not coincidentally, wait times to do so have soared.
The time that aspiring Americans must wait to be naturalized is now almost twice as long, 10 months, as it was two years ago. In Las Vegas, where the office has a particularly large backlog, applicants could wait 31 months.
The delays come as the Trump administration tightens scrutiny of applications, diverts staff from reviewing them and introduces proposals likely to make it more difficult, and cumbersome, for green-card holders to qualify and complete the process.
The administration’s move to tighten restrictions on immigration have awakened many longtime permanent residents to the fact that a green card does not shield them from deportation. It has also compelled many to seek citizenship in order to cast a ballot, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants poised to become potential voters ahead of the 2020 election.
11:35 a.m.
Chicago PD superintendent laments the gap in coverage between Smollett case and everyday violence
“I just wish that the families of gun violence in this city got this much attention because that’s who really deserves the amount of attention that we’re giving to this particular incident.”
The teachers strike movement hits Oakland
BREAKING: Teachers in Oakland, California, have gone on strike demanding smaller class sizes and a 12 percent retroactive raise.
11:03 a.m.
A murder in Indiana is looking increasingly like an anti-Muslim hate crime
An incident that was initially reported as a fatal road rage shooting has shined an even brighter light on potential hate crime legislation in Indiana. Mustafa Ayoubi, a Carmel native and Indiana University graduate, was killed Saturday. His friends say it was because of his Muslim faith. 
Witnesses told investigators that Dustin Passarelli, 33, yelled slurs about Islam just moments before he shot Ayoubi to death in an apartment complex parking lot.At least two shots struck Ayoubi, 32, in the back, court records said. The man yelled: “You are followers of Muhammad,” and “Muhammad is a pedophile,” Usman Ashraf, a friend of Ayoubi who witnessed the shooting, told IndyStar.
SMOLLETT CASE
-Injuries to Smollett were self-inflicted scratches.
-Smollett wrote a $3,500 check to the brothers to stage the attack.
-Attack was done to promote his career.
-Smollett sent the threat letter.
-Smollett “orchestrated this”
9:38 a.m.
9:21 a.m.
Mike Pompeo says he won’t run for senate in Kansas, which probably doesn’t actually mean much
SoS Mike Pompeo tells NBC Today show he won’t run for #KSSEN in 2020: “It’s ruled out. I’m here. I’m loving it…I’m going to be the Secretary of State as long as president trump gives me the opportunity to serve as America’s senior diplomat.”
8:55 a.m.
Milwaukee is expected to be tapped as the Democratic Convention host in 2020, but Miami isn’t going down without a fight
Miami’s stable of Democratic donors — many of whom have hosted President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton multiple times and are already being hit up by numerous Democratic presidential hopefuls — are applying their clout to the city’s bid. Some of them say they’re already leaning on potential 2020 candidates — they won’t say which ones — to get them behind Miami’s convention bid.
Underpinning Miami’s pitch: It’s the heart of the largest Democratic county in the nation’s biggest swing state. Losing Florida — which is worth 29 Electoral College votes, compared to Wisconsin’s 10 — would likely cost President Donald Trump his reelection.
“We’re making a final effort to convince the DNC that Miami is the best place to go, that this could be a boost to the nominee,” said Chris Korge, the top financier of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and a co-chair of Miami’s convention effort.
California’s status as right-wing punching bag makes little sense, considering what an economic powerhouse it is
California is now the world’s fifth-largest economy, up from eighth a decade ago. If it’s a socialist hellhole, it’s a socialist hellhole that somehow nurtured Apple, Google, Facebook, Tesla, Uber, Netflix, Oracle and Intel, not to mention old-economy stalwarts like Chevron, Disney, Wells Fargo and the Hollywood film industry. California firms still attract more venture capital than the rest of the country combined, while its farms produce more fruits, nuts and wine than the rest of the country combined. During the Great Recession, when the state was mired in a budget crisis so brutal its bond rating approached junk and it gave IOUs to government workers, mainstream media outlets were proclaiming the death of the California dream. But after a decade of steady growth that has consistently outpaced the nation’s, plus a significant tax hike on the wealthy, California is in much sounder fiscal shape; while federal deficits are soaring again, the state has erased its red ink and even stashed $13 billion in a rainy day fund.
7:58 a.m.
Things took a dramatic turn in the hearing over possible election fraud in North Carolina
The son of Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris testified Wednesday that he warned his father repeatedly that he believed a political operative now at the center of an election-fraud investigation had previously used illegal tactics to win votes.
John Harris, now an assistant U.S. attorney in Raleigh, said he advised his father in conversations and emails that he believed Leslie McCrae Dowless was “shady” and appeared to have illegally collected absentee ballots in 2016 while working for a different Republican candidate in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District.
… At one point during his testimony, John Harris’s voice cracked and his father wept.
“I thought what he was doing was illegal, and I was right,” John Harris said about Dowless. He added: “I had no reason to believe that my father actually knew, or my mother or any other associate with the campaign had any knowledge. I think Dowless told them he wasn’t doing any of this, and they believed him.”
6:45 a.m.
Maybe Trump should have consulted with our allies before announcing a big policy change in Syria
As the deadline approaches for the withdrawal of U.S. forces fighting the Islamic State in Syria, America’s closest European allies have turned down a Trump administration request to fill the gap with their own troops, according to U.S. and foreign officials.
Allies have “unanimously” told the United States that they “won’t stay if you pull out,” a senior administration official said. France and Britain are the only other countries with troops on the ground in the U.S.-led coalition battling  the Islamic State .
Along with the United States, they have provided training, supplies, logistics and intelligence for the Syrian Democratic Forces, the Kurdish-dominated group that has done most of the fighting. U.S., French and British ­forces also operate heavy artillery and conduct the airstrikes that have been decisive against the militants.
Migrant families are still being separated by the Trump administration, sometimes over “uncorroborated allegations” of crimes, according to a report published Thursday by a Texas civil rights group.
“Family separations are still very much happening in the southern border, they’re still being torn apart by the U.S. government,” Efrén Olivares, director of racial and economic justice at the Texas Civil Rights Project, told NBC News.
While the separations were not happening at the same scale as when the Trump administration announced the “zero tolerance” policy last spring, some occurred under troubling circumstances, Olivares said. The report, which looked at cases between June 22 through Dec. 17 in McAllen, Texas, comes roughly eight months since the government formally ended the policy.
The report said it found 38 cases of parents and legal guardians separated from their children.
Lead is still a major public-health disaster in many American cities
While  we rightfully panic  about the increasing dangers of a warming planet wrought by human industry, our negligence in housing — paired with a helping of systemic racism and poverty — has insured that children today are exposed to environmental dangers that should have been eradicated long ago. Five weeks before Trump made his declaration in an attempt to seize his border wall funding, researchers at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland published  two new studies in coordination with a Cuyahoga County early-childhood initiative. Their conclusions were harrowing. Analyzing statistics obtained from the Ohio Department of Health, the Case studies found that 10.7 percent of children born in 2012 were found to have elevated blood lead level (EBLL) by age five.  That’s 1,237 affected kids . And though overall lead-contamination rates for children in the region have declined for many years, kids under six in Cuyahoga County accounted for 41 percent of Ohio’s cases of elevated exposure.
Children living in pre-1978 housing laden with lead paint is the primary threat identified by the studies. Such homes are prevalent throughout Cleveland and its suburbs, and it’s chilling to consider the likelihood of children crawling around houses containing materials that could poison them. Before age six is about the worst possible time for exposure, as the neurotoxin present in lead potentially causes permanent damage in developing brains.
The Democratic Socialists of America will most likely provide support to Bernie Sanders, by far the candidate most closely aligned with their politics
In an email sent to DSA members after Sanders  launched his bid for president Tuesday , DSA leadership alerted its chapters that it would soon begin polling membership on whether or not they’d support backing Sanders and outlined its potential strategy moving forward.
“DSA could play an important role in supporting Sanders — both by helping Sanders win the Democratic Party primary and go on to defeat Trump in the general election, and by growing DSA as a serious, independent, socialist pole in the broader Sanders movement,” the email reads. The organization’s leadership said in the email that they had come to believe that for DSA to play a significant part in the campaign, “DSA must get involved in Sanders work as early as possible.”
The national campaign, which could launch as early as this spring, would largely focus on promoting the central ideas of Sanders’ platform — Medicare for All, free college,  the Green New Deal , and  ending cash bail  — while supporting the growth of local- and state-level Democratic Socialists for Bernie campaigns and holding town halls, canvassing, and phone banking.
2/20/2019
The stockpile of the U.S. Coast Guard officer who intended to kill Democrats and journalists
Photo: U.S. District Court via AP
2/20/2019
The EPA cribbed the music for a game about recycling from the background music for Yoshi’s Island
The United States’ Environmental Protection Agency has an educational flash game on its site called  Recycle City Challenge . That in itself is not special. However, what is interesting is that when you clicked the Let’s Get Started button, a familiar tune for Mario fans played.
The Verge  reached out to the EPA for comment after the incident. Here’s what the EPA told the publication:
The ‘Recycle City Challenge’ game was created for EPA by a contractor. We are looking into whether the contractor received permission to use the music, to the extent permission was necessary in this instance.
Sarah Isgur, the Republican operative CNN hired to helm 2020 coverage, reportedly interviewed with MSNBC
 It appears that Isgur, as she was preparing to exit the D.O.J., wasn’t only shopping around for a media gig at CNN. Cable-news sources told me that she also passed through 30 Rock to discuss a potential role at MSNBC, where she met with top newsroom management in recent months. “She had a detailed idea of what she wanted to do,” someone with knowledge of the discussions told me. “She wanted to do something on-air combined with some sort of quasi-management, behind-the-scenes planning kind of work. I think she looked at Dave Chalian and said, I wanna do that.”
A second source with direct knowledge of the talks said that such a role “was never under consideration.” This person added, “She was pitching her intimate knowledge of the Mueller probe as a selling point.” (CNN has said that Isgur will have no role in any coverage related to Mueller or the Department of Justice.) MSNBC declined to comment, and CNN didn’t immediately have a comment. Isgur didn’t immediately return an e-mail, but after this article was initially published, a source close to her provided a different characterization, saying that anything related to Mueller was always off the table in Isgur’s conversations with both MSNBC and CNN.
Email
You\'ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up.
