SPONSORED
 
 
 
 
Mouse over to Zoom
eBay Money Back Guarantee
cute.japan has no other items for sale.
Details about  F/S  Dragon Ball Super trump Playing Cards Game Anime Manga From Japan
F/S  Dragon Ball Super trump Playing Cards Game Anime Manga From Japan
Item Information
US $19.67
F/S  Dragon Ball Super trump Playing Cards Game Anime Manga From Japan
Sign in to check out
Check out as guest
The item you've selected was not added to your cart.
FREE Economy Shipping from outside US | See details
Items shipping internationally may be subject to customs processing depending on the item's declared value.
Sellers set the item's declared value and must comply with customs declaration laws.
Buyers may be subject to additional charges for customs clearance.
 
Import charges:
This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. If you reside in an EU member state besides UK, import VAT on this purchase is not recoverable. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab
No additional import charges on delivery
Delivery:
This item has an extended handling time and a delivery estimate greater than 14 business days.
Payments:
Returns:
Similar sponsored items
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item specifics
Condition:
Brand:
ensky
Type:
Shipping and handling
This item will ship to United States, but the seller has not specified shipping options. Contact the seller- opens in a new window or tab and request a shipping method to your location.
Shipping cost cannot be calculated. Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Item location: Saitama, Japan
No additional import charges at delivery!
Change country:
There are 1 items available. Please enter a number less than or equal to 1.
Select a valid country.
Please enter 5 or 9 numbers for the ZIP Code.
Shipping and handling
Estimated between Thu. Mar. 14 and Fri. Mar. 29
Handling time
Taxes
Sales tax may apply when shipping to: IA*, MN*, WA*.
* Tax applies to subtotal + S&H for these states only
Return policy
Seller does not offer returns.
Refer to eBay Return policy for more details. You are covered by the eBay Money Back Guarantee if you receive an item that is not as described in the listing.
Payment details
Payment method
Special financing available
Select PayPal Credit at checkout to have the option to pay over time.
Qualifying purchases could enjoy No Interest if paid in full in 6 months on purchases of $99 or more. Other offers may also be available.
Interest will be charged to your account from the purchase date if the balance is not paid in full within 6 months. Minimum monthly payments are required. Subject to credit approval. See terms - opens in a new window or tab
The PayPal Credit account is issued by Synchrony Bank.
 
This is a private listing and your identity will not be disclosed to anyone except the seller.
