Iran builds new secret missile site in Syria for Hezbollah
Israel exposed on Thursday Iranian, Syrian and Hezbollah efforts to build a missile factory in the Syrian town of Safita.
1 minute read.
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
 
Dear Reader,
As you can imagine, more people are reading The Jerusalem Post than ever before.             Nevertheless, traditional business models are no longer sustainable and high-quality publications,             like ours, are being forced to look for new ways to keep going. Unlike many other news organizations,             we have not put up a paywall. We want to keep our journalism open             and accessible and be able to keep providing you with news             and analysis from the frontlines of Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.
As one of our loyal readers, we ask you to be our partner.
For $5 a month you will receive access to the following:
A user experience almost completely free of ads
Access to our Premium Section
Content from the award-winning Jerusalem Report  and our monthly magazine to learn Hebrew - Ivrit
A brand new ePaper featuring the daily newspaper as it appears in print in Israel
Help us grow and continue telling Israel’s story to the world.
Thank you,
Yaakov Katz, Editor-in-Chief
Iran, Syria and Hezbollah are establishing a missile factory on the outskirts of the Syrian town of Safita, Israel revealed on Thursday according to Channel 12.
Israel’s strategy, according to the report, is to make the efforts public to thwart the construction and success of the factory, which is supposed to be where Iran will turn Hezbollah’s missiles into precision-guided munitions, capable of striking targets in the Jewish state with unprecedented accuracy.
The Israeli report claimed that a front organization named “Anas Group” was created to purchase materials from Italy, China and other Asian nations, and that the factory is currently run by Jamal Said, said to be a known figure in the field of missile production in the Middle East.
Speaking in the United Nations in September , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pressured the international community to pay attention to Israel’s findings and inspect Iran’s movements in Syria. Netanyahu at the time revealed several sites in Beirut, where he said Hezbollah attempted to convert ground-to-ground missiles to precision missiles.
One of the sites, according to the prime minister, was inside a soccer stadium belonging to the Lebanese terrorist group, a second site in Hariri International Airport and a third 500 meters from the airport’s runway in the heart of the Ma’aganah residential neighborhood.
“Israel knows what you’re doing, and Israel knows where you’re doing it,” he said. “What Iran hides, Israel will find.”
In December, he said the sites had been closed as a result of Israel’s exposure of them at the UN.
Hezbollah’s effort to build accurate and precise missiles, facilitated by Iranian expertise, funding and guidance, has been targeted by Israel on numerous occasions in Syria – most recently late last year – when Israeli jets struck a military warehouse that held vehicles set to smuggle precision rocket converting systems from Syria to Lebanon.
Join Jerusalem Post Premium Plus now for just $5 and upgrade your experience with an ads-free website and exclusive content. Click here>>
Sponsored Content
Sponsored Content
SUBSCRIBE
Most Read
The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests:    Telephone: *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax: 03-5613699 E-mail: subs@jpost.com   The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and  13:00   For international customers: The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM   Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574  Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax: 972-3-561-3699 E-mail: subs@jpost.com
