Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Forget Trump's border wall. What about his concertina wire in Nogales?
It makes no sense to drape the border fence in Nogales with concertina wire. So let's do it anyway.
Post to Facebook
Forget Trump's border wall. What about his concertina wire in Nogales? It makes no sense to drape the border fence in Nogales with concertina wire. So let's do it anyway. Check out this story on azcentral.com: https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2019/02/07/forget-trumps-border-wall-what-his-concertina-wire-nogales/2806020002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
OPINION
Forget Trump's border wall. What about his concertina wire in Nogales?
Laurie Roberts , Arizona Republic Published 3:23 p.m. MT Feb. 7, 2019 | Updated 4:31 p.m. MT Feb. 7, 2019
Opinion: It makes no sense to drape the border fence in Nogales with concertina wall. So let's do it anyway.
The additional concertina wire can be seen on the border fence in Nogales, Ariz, on February 4, 2019. U.S. Army troops were back in downtown Nogales over the weekend to add more coils of the wire.
 (Photo11: Mamta Popat /Arizona Daily Star)
Forget, for the moment, about Donald Trump’s wall. What the heck is going on with Donald Trump’s concertina wire?
The good people of Nogales would certainly like to know.
It seems they don’t appreciate their latest downtown redevelopment project, courtesy of the U.S. military.
Coil upon coil upon coil of flesh-slicing razor wire. The sort of stuff you’d find in a war zone, or around a concentration camp or a maximum-security prison …
Or now, dripping from top to bottom of the 18-foot U.S.-Mexico border fence that runs through downtown Nogales.
Last month, there was just one coil running along the top of the two-story fence, installed before the midterm elections. Nogales Mayor Arturo Garino told the Associated Press  that he asked Sen. Martha McSally when she was in town last month to help the city get rid of it.
Instead, over the weekend, troops strung five additional coils, layer after lay of barbed steel covering the fence from top to bottom in places.
It’s dangerous, running, as it does, right down to the ground in close proximity to business and residential areas.
It’s overkill, in that while Trump warns that the border is a “very dangerous area”, Nogales really isn’t.
Then again, this isn't about practicality. It's about politics.
Laying out coil upon upon of galvaized steel concertina wire is a crowd pleaser in Trumpland. Plus, it gives the troops on the border something to do.
The Nogales City Council on Wednesday evening unanimously passed a resolution demanding that the concertina wire be removed, saying they don't wish to live in a war zone.
“Placing coiled concertina wire strands on the ground is typically only found in a war, battlefield or prison setting, and not in an urban setting such as downtown Nogales, Arizona,” it said. “Placing coiled concertina wire that is designed to inflict serious bodily injury or death in the immediate proximity of our residents, children, pets, law enforcement and first responders is not only irresponsible but inhuman.”
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Our best and latest in commentary in daily digest form.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Opinions Newsletter
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
“Hardening of current infrastructure specifically in high-risk locations of the urban area help reduce the illicit activity, to include violent criminals, in these areas and increase the public safety,” the agency said in a statement.
Mayor Garino told the Washington Post that he met Wednesday with Customs and Border Protection officials, who waxed on about “rapists, murderers and drug dealers.”.
“But that was strange, because the police chief, assistant chief and deputy city manager were there, and we don’t know of those things happening,” Garino said. “I don’t know where they’re getting their stats.”
From Donald Trump, probably.
No longer, apparently, is it enough to have just a wall. Now we need coil upon coil  of concertina wire as well.
What’s next, electrification?
Moats and alligators, anybody?
Reach Roberts at laurie.roberts@arizonarepublic.com .
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Our best and latest in commentary in daily digest form.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Opinions Newsletter
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Subscribe Now
