More in Editors Pick:
Donald Trump and David Malpass. PHOTO CREDIT: SCMP
US President Donald Trump has nominated David Malpass, a critic of multilateral institutions like the World Bank, to replace Jim Yong Kim as the World Bank president.
Malpass is a Trump loyalist, who served as senior economic adviser to the president during his campaign in 2016, and currently the undersecretary for international affairs at the Treasury Department of the United States.
“I am certain there could be no better candidate to lead the World Bank than David. He’s going to do very well,” Trump said from the White House on Wednesday night.
Responding to his nomination, Malpass said he is very optimistic the bank can achieve breakthroughs in combating extreme poverty.
“I’m very optimistic that we can achieve breakthroughs to create growth abroad that will help us combat extreme poverty and increase economic opportunities in the developing world,” Malpass said.
Malpass had criticized both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), calling for improvements in the bank’s lending programs.
He said a process must be in put in place “to focus, prune and streamline” such multilateral institutions.
 
Ships & Ports Communication Company is a full-fledge communication firm, specialising in public relations and media services in the shipping sector. We are Nigeria’s foremost maritime communication firm, providing unique and top notch professional media services to the industry and public relations services to select clients. Read More
Advertise Here
Ships & Ports Online Website is the number one source of Maritime Information in the Industry. We have a lot of loyal readers both within and outside the country, who follow the maritime industry through our website.
We offer various advertising solutions on our website and our daily newsletter that you can actively take advantage of.
IMO Book Sale
Ships & Ports is the official distributor of International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Books in Nigeria and West Africa. To order for IMO Books, send an email to [email protected]
