There Are Virtually No Records Of One-To-One Talks Between Presidents Trump And Putin
Now that “We the People” have learned that the FBI started a June-July 2017 counter-intelligence case which included gathering intel about the republican President Donald Trump’s ties to Russia, to where he could be acting primarily to further its interests over US national security interests, it becomes crucially important to know what the Presidents Trump and Putin discussed during their several one-to -one talks. But it turns out that during these one-to-one talks, President Trump took extraordinary steps to keep anything discussed between him and the Russian leader, President Vladimir Putin, concealed.
I have always wondered if the FBI had ever debriefed the former Secretary Of State Rex Tillerson about what he had heard while he was the only US witness to what was discussed between these two leaders at their first hour long talk at the July 2017 G20 conference held in Hamburg Germany.
This is an important aside note. As per the 1/12/19 Washington Post report by Greg Miller, “Tillerson’s account is at odds with the only detail that other administration officials were able to get from the interpreter (2017 Hamburg meeting), officials said. Though the interpreter refused to discuss the meeting, officials said, he conceded that Putin had denied any Russian involvement in the U.S. election and that Trump responded by saying, “I believe you.”
Here is the rest of the story…
On January 12, 2019, Greg Miller of the Washington Post penned the following report, “Trump has concealed details of his face-to-face encounters with Putin from senior officials in administration”
Excerpts:
“President Trump has gone to extraordinary lengths to conceal details of his conversations with Russian President Vladi­mir Putin, including on at least one occasion taking possession of the notes of his own interpreter and instructing the linguist not to discuss what had transpired with other administration officials, current and former U.S. officials said.”
“Trump did so after a meeting with Putin in 2017 in Hamburg that was also attended by then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. U.S. officials learned of Trump’s actions when a White House adviser and a senior State Department official sought information from the interpreter beyond a readout shared by Tillerson.”
“The constraints that Trump imposed are part of a broader pattern by the president of shielding his communications with Putin from public scrutiny and preventing even high-ranking officials in his own administration from fully knowing what he has told one of the United States’ main adversaries.”
“As a result, U.S. officials said there is no detailed record, even in classified files, of Trump’s face-to-face interactions with the Russian leader at five locations over the past two years. Such a gap would be unusual in any presidency, let alone one that Russia sought to install through what U.S. intelligence agencies have described as an unprecedented campaign of election interference.”
“Special counsel Robert S. Mueller III is thought to be in the final stages of an investigation that has focused largely on whether Trump or his associates conspired with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign. The new details about Trump’s continued secrecy underscore the extent to which little is known about his communications with Putin since becoming president.”
“Former U.S. officials said that Trump’s behavior is at odds with the known practices of previous presidents, who have relied on senior aides to witness meetings and take comprehensive notes then shared with other officials and departments.”
Trump’s secrecy surrounding Putin “is not only unusual by historical standards, it is outrageous,” said Strobe Talbott, a former deputy secretary of state now at the Brookings Institution, who participated in more than a dozen meetings between President Bill Clinton and then-Russian President Boris Yeltsin in the 1990s. “It handicaps the U.S. government — the experts and advisers and Cabinet officers who are there to serve [the president] — and it certainly gives Putin much more scope to manipulate Trump.”
“A White House spokesman disputed that characterization and said that the Trump administration has sought to “improve the relationship with Russia” after the Obama administration “pursued a flawed ‘reset’ policy that sought engagement for the sake of engagement.”
“The Trump administration “has imposed significant new sanctions in response to Russian malign activities (because he was forced to by US Congress),” said the spokesman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity and noted that Tillerson in 2017 “gave a fulsome readout of the meeting immediately afterward to other U.S. officials in a private setting, as well as a readout to the press.”
“Trump allies said the president thinks the presence of subordinates impairs his ability to establish a rapport with Putin, and that his desire for secrecy may also be driven by embarrassing leaks that occurred early in his presidency.”
“The meeting in Hamburg happened several months after  The Washington Post and other news organizations revealed details  about what Trump had told senior Russian officials during a meeting with Russian officials in the Oval Office. Trump disclosed classified information about a terror plot, called former FBI director James B. Comey a “nut job,” and said that firing Comey had removed “great pressure” on his relationship with Russia.”
“The White House launched internal leak hunts after that and other episodes, and sharply curtailed the distribution within the National Security Council of memos on the president’s interactions with foreign leaders.”
PRESIDENT TRUMP WITH RUSSIANS AT WHITE HOUSE
“Over time it got harder and harder, I think, because of a sense from Trump himself that the leaks of the call transcripts were harmful to him,” said a former administration official.
“Senior Democratic lawmakers describe the cloak of secrecy surrounding Trump’s meetings with Putin as unprecedented and disturbing.”
“Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an interview that his panel will form an investigative subcommittee whose targets will include seeking State Department records of Trump’s encounters with Putin, including a  closed-door meeting with the Russian leader in Helsinki  last summer (2018).”
HELSINKI
“It’s been several months since Helsinki and we still don’t know what went on in that meeting,” Engel said. “It’s appalling. It just makes you want to scratch your head.”
The concerns have been compounded by actions and positions Trump has taken as president that are seen as favorable to the Kremlin. He has dismissed Russia’s election interference as a “hoax,” suggested that Russia was entitled to annex Crimea, repeatedly attacked NATO allies, resisted efforts to impose sanctions on Moscow, and begun to pull U.S. forces out of Syria — a move that critics see as effectively ceding ground to Russia.”
“At the same time, Trump’s decision to fire Comey and other attempts to contain the ongoing Russia investigation led the bureau in May 2017 to launch a counterintelligence investigation into whether he was seeking to help Russia and if so, why, a step first reported by the New York Times.”
“It is not clear whether Trump has taken notes from interpreters on other occasions, but several officials said they were never able to get a reliable readout of the president’s two-hour meeting in Helsinki. Unlike in Hamburg, Trump allowed no Cabinet officials or any aides to be in the room for that conversation.”
Post navigation
Dear Keith,
His going out of his way to hide these notes about his talks with an adversary, Russia’s President Donald Trump, demonstrates his consciousness of guilt. It kind of puts Mrs. Clinton deleting her 30,000 plus personal emails into perspective.
Hugs, Gronda
Dear Sotomayor111,
I find it galling that GOP lawmakers did NOT give Hillary Clinton a pass for using a personal server to protect her privacy and to protect herself from political attacks while she was Sec. of State from 2009-2013 because she could possibly be compromising classified data.
But now, its okay for the president  to act in a way that could compromise US national security by withholding notes regarding his one-on-one talks with an adversary President Putin on hat same basis.
Thanks a million for sharing this post via your reblog.
Hugs, Gronda
I will bet dollars to donuts that Trump’s conversations with Putin did NOT revolve around national security issues but rather tRumpsky’s PERSONAL FINANCE issues.
It’s a known fact he’s had monetary dealings with Russia for years … and there has most recently been mention of his desire for a “Trump” hotel in Russia (e.g., Cohen’s testimony). Furthermore, it’s more than obvious that Trump is running this country in a way that benefits HIM (in any and all ways) rather than what is good for the U.S.
And why wouldn’t he make the statement that he “believes” Putin when he says Russia was not involved with the 2016 elections? That was just to satisfy the news media … when he knows his buddy played a major role in getting him elected. Tit for tat.
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Respect Award
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,003 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
