Please check your URL or use the search form below.
In The News
If you think it’s a good idea to……
The Kuhner Report – Podcasts:
by Witsnews
Voter fraud is on the rise, the same politicians keep getting elected over & over & over again….and we wonder why nothing ever gets done in Washington. One has to wonder how much of an influence voter fraud and the illegal vote has had on our current political state in this country.
Isn’t it time to change the way we vote, so that our votes actually count, instead of being effectively nullified by voter fraud?
Here are a few suggestions:
Every state should start requiring photo ID and proof of citizenship from every voter. (no-brainer)
Hand stamping procedures or similar tools for verifying one vote per person should be implemented in all states.
Early voting by mail, and absentee voting should be strictly limited to only those cases where legitimate need is proven.  “Ballot harvesting”, a favorite among Democrats in California which allows anyone to collect absentee ballots unsupervised, should be outlawed.
Voting machines:
Any state using electronic voting machines should require that the machines provide multiple copy paper receipts showing a date/time stamp, voting location, machine ID number, and list all the candidate choices the voter selected.
One copy remains with the voter who initials all the receipts to verify that the information on the receipts is correct, and one copy goes to a representative of each political party.
After the electronic votes are all tabulated, staff from each political party represented in the election proceed to hand count each and every voter receipt while being monitored by reps from each of the parties. The totals from the hand counts are then compared to the results of the machine tabulations, and all results are immediately released to the public.
If the winners from the machine tabulations match those found from the hand counts from all political parties, then an official winner is declared.
If there is a discrepancy from the hand counts of any of the political parties large enough to show a different winner than what the electronic tabulations showed, then an equal number of staff from all parties represented must combine to do an additional final manual re-count.
The results of this final count determine the official winner. If the electronic tabulations are overruled by the results of the hand counts, all voting machines involved in the process are repaired or replaced immediately.
This is just a short list.  There are many other options which should be considered such as increased use of security cameras, volunteer programs to provide proper oversight, legal aid for filing fraud reports, etc.
The future of the republic is at stake here, we have to get this right…and soon.
Socialism is….
and After:
When the Muslim refugees came, I didn’t protest….they were just poor refugees.
When they built mosques and Islamic cultural centers, I didn’t protest….they had the right to pray to Allah.
When they demanded only Halal food in schools, I didn’t protest….they can only eat what the Koran allows them to eat.
When they gang-raped women and girls, I didn’t protest…..rapes occur in every culture, and they have nothing to do with Islam.
When they carried out terror attacks, I didn’t protest….it was only a few extremists, who didn’t represent true Islam.
When they demanded Sharia Law zones, I didn’t protest….they needed their own space, and we live in a free country.
When they took their seats in government, I didn’t protest…..they have a right to be represented.
When they introduced Islamic Sharia Law, demanding that it apply to the entire population…….it was too late for me to protest.
The duty of a true Patriot….
Meet the U.S. Congress….
How about some good news for a change?  Pastor Joel Osteen – Podcasts:
Feminists say….
Worth The Read:
Lutheran Minister Richard Wurmbrand On The Threat To Freedom
Russian Novelist And Historian Alexander Solzhenitsyn Cautioned The U.S.
Theodore Roosevelt’s Thoughts On Civilization, America, & The Future
It’s been over seven years.  Do you realize that 300 tons of radioactive water from Fukushima is still being pumped into the Pacific Ocean every day? The ocean is dying. Why hasn’t there been more of an international effort to help Japan contain this disaster?
FARMLANDS – Documentary About The Plight Of South African Farmers – by Lauren Southern
Wireless wake-up call  Jeromy Johnson TEDxBerkeley
Exposed: The Electronic Sickening of America and How to Protect Yourself – Includes Dangers of 5G & Smart Devices – by Bill Cadwallader – Paperback & Kindle
How Feminism Destroyed Europe – Iben Thranholm and Stefan Molyneux
You sent them off…..
Homeschool For A Better Future – Join Power Homeschool – Official Parent Support Group
Death Of A Nation – Plantation Politics and the Making of the Democratic Party- by Dinesh D’Souza – Hardcover, Kindle, & Audiobook
Blacklisted by History: The Untold Story of Senator Joe McCarthy and His Fight Against America’s Enemies – by M. Stanton Evans – Kindle, Paperback, & Audiobook
Dr. Helen Smith Explains Why Men Need To Boycott Marriage
Men on Strike: Why Men Are Boycotting Marriage, Fatherhood, and the American Dream and Why It Matters – by Dr. Helen Smith – Hardcover, Paperback, & Audiobook
Stay Connected with WITSNEWS On Facebook
The Cure for 97% of Diseases  Dr. John Bergman video:
Try AmazonFresh Free Trial
Flavorwave Turbo Oven cooks fresh and frozen food quickly, & removes fat and oils for healthier cooking
Amazon Handyman Services  Let us help you find, buy, and schedule services from highly rated local pros. With upfront pricing and satisfaction guaranteed, you can purchase a service with the same ease you’ve come to expect from shopping on Amazon:
Gosnell: The Untold Story of America’s Most Prolific Serial Killer – by Ann McElhinney & Phelim McAleer – Paperback, Kindle, & Audiobook
Facts you need to know about abortion – LifeSiteNews.com
There´s absolutely nothing in a typical vaccine that’s good for your body, but there are numerous toxins which are extremely damaging. Find out what’s really in vaccines:
There was a reason vaccine manufacturers lobbied Congress until they were granted immunity from prosecution – Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe – Real Life Stories From Victims
“There´s no such thing as a safe drug.” – Gwen Olsen – 15 year pharmaceutical rep
Confessions Of An RX Drug Pusher – by Gwen Olsen – Paperback & Kindle
Death by Prescription: The Shocking Truth Behind an Overmedicated Nation – by Dr. Ray Strand – Hardcover & Paperback
Dr. Michael Savage – Podcasts
Stop Mass Hysteria, by #1 New York Times bestselling author Michael Savage – Hardcover & Kindle
God, Faith, and Reason – by Michael Savage – Hardcover, Kindle, & Audiobook
Trump’s War: His Battle for America – by Michael Savage – Hardcover, Kindle, & Audiobook
Liberalism Is A Mental Disorder – by Dr. Michael Savage – Paperback & Kindle
Bill Cooper, U.S. Naval Intelligence Veteran, Radio Host, & Best Selling Author Predicts 9/11 on 6/28/2001:
Bill Cooper 9/11 Broadcast As It Happened – Maybe The Only Real Truth That Was Heard That Day:
Still believe that two aluminum planes took down three steel skyscrapers in perfect demolition-style free fall, and turned the buildings and their contents into dust…without the assistance of some other type of destructive force? – Where Did The Towers Go? – by Dr. Judy Wood – Hardcover
Follow WITSNEWS On Twitter
In case you were wondering what your country might be like without 2nd Amendment rights, just look at history. Support the NRA – https://home.nra.org/
Slavery, Terrorism & Islam – by Dr. Peter Hammond – Paperback
NO MUSLIMS IN AMERICA … Adapted from Dr. Peter Hammond’s book, “Slavery, Terrorism and Islam”:
Western Civilization is
their own demise!
nor is it a cult. Islam
has religious, legal,
political, economic and
their so-called “religious rights”.
When politically correct and
population remains around 1%
peace-loving minority and
In fact, they may be
featured in articles and
films, and stereotyped for
to proselytize from
other ethnic minorities
an inordinate influence in
proportion to their percentage
of the population. They
standards) food, thereby
securing food preparation jobs
for Muslims. They will increase pressure on supermarket chains to feature it on their shelves…along with threats for failure to comply:
France — Muslim 8%
Philippines — Muslim 5%
Sweden — Muslim 5%
Switzerland — Muslim 4.3%
to get the ruling government
to allow them to rule
themselves under Sharia, the
Islamic Law. The ultimate
the world, and to establish
Sharia law over the entire
Earth.
about their conditions. Any
widespread massacres,
unfettered persecution of
non-believers and other
religions, sporadic ethnic
Jizya…the tax placed on
infidels:
————————————————————
peace, because now everybody
Afghanistan — Muslim 100%
Home
Contact
Subscribe & stay up to date with the latest news delivered automatically to your browser or feed reader.
