Nov 21, 2017
The military industrial complex needs to be understood by American citizens. Most American’s do not understand what it is and how it works.
Let’s begin with how it all got started many, many years ago. During World War II America was threatened by two major global powers: Japan and Germany. In order to fight these enemies the U.S. government borrowed massive amounts of money to fund the war efforts. The outcome was an economic and military success. The debt-driven war efforts caused the US economy to grow into the most powerful economy in the world. Jobs to build military equipment, bases and training soldiers popped up all over the country. Every state in the nation benefited from this economic growth.
It is this success that created the military industrial complex.
Since every state was dependent on military spending for part of its economy, every elected official was given incentives to keep the military spending money in his or her state. This means that every time a bill was written for congress it hardly ever ask for cuts to military spending because the congressmen would hurt their own state by his vote to downsize military spending. You can make your own conclusions but the fact remains that the American military industrial complex was born out of the economic success of WWII.
Since WWII America has been in one war after another and when its not called a war its called a conflict and when its not a conflict its an occupation.
Call it what you like the US military is present all over the world. The US has 5% of the world’s population and is the primary authority in international affairs. US military intervention has steadily increased since WWII. There used to be one major military action every year now the US is engaging several times a year. The US has a positive economic feedback to military engagement in the form of economic response to military spending. The US would not be engaging its military if the military was not as big and powerful as it is. And the US military would not be as big and powerful as it is if it did not reward its citizens with jobs and income. The system is perpetuating war.
The primary reason for conflict and war is resources.
Resources are an issue because they are systematically being miss managed by a broken and obsolete banking system that is undermining the entire world. This may seem like an outrageous claim but in the book “ Optimizing America ”, the rational is explained. World Peace is only elusive because the banking system isn’t working.
Author of Optimizing America
20
Never miss a story from Jarl Jensen, when you sign up for Medium. Learn more
Never miss a story from Jarl Jensen
BlockedUnblock
