Does it ever cease to amaze you that the left-wing media is SO out of touch? So blind to their own slanted-ness?
Of course, Politifact would tell you that they are not slanted, but that’s simply not true. They were recently called out for a long list of fact-checking crimes, and here’s just one of them.
As reported by Newsbusters :
In the “Blue Wave” year of 2018, Barack and Michelle Obama were rated….Zero times. Hillary Clinton was rated…..Zero times. Sen. Elizabeth Warren was rated….Zero times. Bill Clinton drew one…for claiming they were poor when they left the White House.
Newsbusters calls Politifact out again:
And for the record, PolitiFact has never evaluated Warren on the “Truth-o-Meter” when she claimed to be part-Cherokee Indian.
It’s truly comical when you compare their claims to the facts. Their integrity has been called into question so much that they actually wrote an article entitled, “Politifact is not biased–here’s why.”
Here’s what they had to say:
We have a sustainable business model that is independent of political affiliation or corporate interests. We make money from online advertising, services and syndication, a few grants that respect our independence, and, most critically, reader support.
And yet, what they don’t tell you is that they are FUNDED by grants from known-liberal agenda supporters, as reported by Newsbusters :
This….is Pants on Fire.
PolitiFact has been sustained by large grants from liberal foundations including the Ford Foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the leftist Craig Newmark Foundation. (Newmark is the founder of Craigslist.)
So is it any wonder that Politifact would be slanted towards Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez? Her embarrassing mistakes would be lighting up media attention if they were, in fact, unbiased.
Take for example, the Green Deal she is proposing. Newsbusters reported that even Joe Concha from the Hill is calling her out, when no one else will do it:
But in the case of Ocasio-Cortez’s socialist document, Concha pointed out that it’s “easily the most mockable, I’ll create a word here, the most easy to ridicule proposal that we have seen come out of any government official in modern politics” with asinine policy prescriptions, but are not being fact-checked.
Speaking of fact-checking, Concha  cited  Chuck Todd while Kilmeade  mentioned  CNN’s Bill Weir (click “expand”):
CONCHA: Here is one very key part here, Brian. Here is Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to NPR yesterday. Question: this proposal requires massive government intervention, doesn’t it? She answers: “It does. I have no problem saying that.” Later that day, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to MSNBC’s Chuck Todd: “One way that the right does try to mischaracterize what we are doing as if it’s some kind of massive government takeover.” In other words, she’s contradicting herself in realtime and Todd didn’t challenge her on it whatsoever.
But fact checking is about FACTS, right? Yea, not really.
Even in light of all of the fallacies committed by Nancy Pelosi (even the LIBERAL MEDIA has to report on this), Newsbuster’s reports that “PolitiFact Checked Trump Almost 25 Times More Often Than Nancy Pelosi in 2017-2018.”  That’s just sad:
— President Trump was fact-checked on their “Truth-o-Meter” 297 times in the last two calendar years, and 205 of those statements were ranked Mostly False, False, or Pants on Fire. That’s 69 percent of the time.
— Nancy Pelosi, then the House Minority Leader, House leader Nancy Pelosi was checked 12 times.
You Might Like
