Search
Home Latest News Trump rejects socialism at SOTU as expressionless Dems sit unmoved
February 10, 2019
February 10, 2019
Sanders scowled as President Trump vowed that ‘America will never be socialist.’
“Simply put, walls work and walls save lives,” Trump added. “So let’s work together, compromise and reach a deal that will truly make America safe. … This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier –not just a simple concrete wall.”
Trump framed border security as a matter of preventing human trafficking, stopping the flow of illegal drugs from Mexico and maintaining federal resources for legal citizens. Democrats, including Ocasio-Cortez, sat on their hands as Trump praised an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent, Elvin Hernandez, for breaking up a notorious human trafficking ring.
But perhaps more than any other issue, the socialism schism brought into sharp relief the differences between the two parties as 2020 looms.
Trump began the portion of his speech by citing the economic decline and civil disorder in Venezuela as a cautionary tale, after his administration last week imposed sweeping sanctions against the regime of Nicolas Maduro.
The country’s government in recent years limited citizens’ access to foreign currency, implemented substantial subsidies and price controls on food and other items, and fell victim to sweeping corruption — before effectively collapsing last month.
Recommended For You
Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
“Two weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela, and its new interim president, Juan Guaido,” Trump said. “We stand with the Venezuelan people in their noble quest for freedom — and we condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair.
“Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” Trump continued, prompting boos from Republicans in the chamber. “America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination and control. We are born free, and we will stay free.”
Then, after a prolonged chant of “USA” broke out, Trump concluded, “Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.”
Democrats largely remained seated as Republicans resumed the “USA” chant and applauded for several seconds.
Greg Wilson is the managing editor for FoxNews.com
Trending in Politics
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
==========
=
Recommended
Instant eCom Funnels AGENCY LITE Done For You eCom Product Funnels In Less Than 60 Seconds! Perfect for dropshippers who want to avoid expensive Shopify fees!
SpeakEz Agency and Reseller (250 Licenses) Engage more users by adding voice to your web pages. Allow visitors to seamlessly transition from reading your content, into enjoying a captivating narrated audio version they can have read to them at their leisure.
PassionFuze OTO 1 - Synergy All Training Courses By DPAPA Giving you all secrets and strategies, case studies in a golden platter.
Vyco Training Bootcamp Step By Step Video Training Bootcamp, Recordings, Webinars, Q and A Sessions
Traffic Trapper - Software Bundle x3 Massive discount on 3 of our best software products + FULL Master Resale Rights to one of them so you can sell it as your own.
BleuPage Pro -> Total Automation Tired of posting content to your social media networks? Want to setup things with just a mere click of the mouse? Total Automation sources content from all of the top content providers and shares to your social media networks. Just select the timing the s
Linkedtify - Agency Purchase The Best LinkedIn Software and Training and get rewarded with consistent leads. Proof Inside!
Livecaster Reseller Live Caster PRO solves the real world problem of grabbing traffic and you already know that. But what you don’t know is that you can generate cash from it also.  Want to know how, by becoming a Whitelabel Reseller. We will provide you with all the marketi
Buyers List Blueprint - 20 DFY Campaigns Just copy or learn from these proven email campaigns to create your own high converting email promos in future.
Affiliate Hero Front End Lite 1. Find hot product based on keywords 2. Posts using hashtags with most traffic 3. Auto-sends your referral link to those who post their email on your IG post.
Childs Play Profits Marketers everywhere are raving about this new 1-2-3 money method!
SociBot ELITE 'PRO' SociBot is an all in one Facebook traffic and commission getting software that will help you to grow your business on autopilot, even whilst your asleep!
VidSkippy 2.0 - Pro ( Unlimited Projects ) Use Other People's Videos and their websites to quickly profit from any product in any niche with just a few clicks.  Unlimited use, Additional features, Plus Add Testimonials to video / video ads (unlimited campaigns)
Local Seo Ninja Local Biz Bundle Local SEO Ninja is the Complete Local SEO Video Training and Software solution for Ranking Local Business Websites.
(Personal) X Ranker 360 2.0 The ONLY Web-App Guaranteed To Rank More Of Your Videos On Page 1 of Google in 48 hours or less - See a LIVE Case Study here.
TigerPress Volume 6 Theme Club Get all Tigerpress themes added each month, including the HTML versions and white label functionality, members also receive FREE updates and support, and also receive access to SaaS bonuses added monthly for one low price.
Long Tail Pro Special Offer The best and fastest way to find keywords that will help your website rank in search engines. The Beginner Package includes 10,000 keyword results with complete SERP competition data, Keyword Competitiveness scores for every keyword, and no expiry date!
Behind the Scenes Weekly Webinar Here you will get the rare chance to get a behind the scenes ticket to watch Nikhil apply everything he learned from the private coaching sessions to start building a 6 figure business.
LetSpinio Gold Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
ATL - ELITE Upgrade - PRO The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
LiteApp Studio - VR Consultant Toolkit Discover How You Can Make Landing Dozens Of Mobile App Clients So Easy, You Could Do It In Your Sleep - AND Charge Them Over $500 - $2,500 Per App! MOBILE APP CONSULTANT MARKETING TOOLKIT
==========
=
Recommended
ProfitBuilder - Standard Generate leads and increase revenue using the #1 drag and drop landing page builder for WordPress with it's full suite of powerful tools for marketers...
EasyStores - DFY - 5 Sites Revolutionary New Self-Updating Store Builder Using New "LIVE" Technology And Integrated With Our Award Winning Traffic Software
EZ Magic Video EZ Magic Video is the first software of it's kind that allows you to control what REAL human spokespeople say in your videos, line-by-line...
IPP - PLR Monthly Profit Pack Special - OTO! Lifetime Special access to our Top Quality PLR Membership website where we provide FRESH PLR content every single month! Single One Time Only payment for Lifetime Access!
DigiiBiz Ninja Your Own Digital Product Empire… in 60 Seconds - ‘Ninja’ Training videos.
Socifeed PLATINUM Socifeed PLATINUM Edition - 15X Your Traffic With The BIG Publishers SECRET Formula, Instantly! LOWEST One-Time Launch Price Today ONLY! Increases To $197.00!
Sales Dynamite Jack Nothing Comes Close To Our Proprietary and Unique 7 Products DYNAMITE PROSPECTOR PACKAGE For A Robust Business Foundation Every Local Marketer Wants and Needs
Progressive Apps Builder Pro Edition World's Easiest Progressive App Maker. Convert Your Website into A Progressive App and Send Instant Push Notification to your customer on their Smart Phones. No App Store Approvals Required.
WebinarHD Agency Unlimited The Best Webinar Software That Will WOW Your Audience During LIVE Facebook Stream Using Dynamic Layouts.
TigerPress Volume 4 Premium one of a kind wordpress themes that do all the onpage seo for you including image seo, with TigerPress themes you can also generate an unlimited amount of geo targeted landing pages in any language.
Green Screen Academy Reseller FE The 3-in-one Green Screen Suite that gives you all the tools to transform your videos, adding a touch of class to your video production.
Pintra EMPIRE Pintra Software and Training for free traffic and content back to your websites and blogs.  Up to 10 blog license to put your  business on complete autopilot.   Included Advanced Training For even more Targed traffic for passive income.
WPDigiPro Platinum Add-Ons Bundle WPDigiPro Handles Your Entire Digital Product Business on Complete Autopilot! From Payment Gateways Integration, Automatic Product Delivery, Email Notification, Automatic Members Access, Autoresponder Integration, Download Link Protection, Page Protection
Live Vid Ranker - Reseller License LiveVidRanker is a Revolutionary SaaS system using Never Before Seen Technologies... all helping you to do ONE THING very well. Thatand#39;s getting Page 1 Rankings on YouTube and Google practically Instantly. =)
SilentSiphon - LeadsFlow Pro - Elite Edition The most powerful lead management and integration platform for Wordpress that allows you to track, integrate and manage all your leads from any system.
Commission Jacker Inside The Commission Jacker you'll discover an additional social media platform you can use to generate even more customers for your business.
Correctsender Website Fix - Commercial (5 licenses) Commercial License of Correctsender allows to provide GDPR services to third party websites.
Ad Ignition Software [Entreprise] Create and Run Amazing Interactive Ad Campaigns on All Your Websites and Control them All from One Easy to Use Dashboard!
VideoPal VideoPal is cutting edge software platform to boost attention, leads and sales!
LetSpinio Silver Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
Leadz Hijack Leads are the lifeblood of any business, whether you're collecting email subscribers to build an internet marketing list or you're a local business looking to connect with future customers, the more leads you have the faster you can grow your business. Th
WP Empire Builder 3.0 WordPress Plugin Launches multiple money sites, fully-loaded with ALL your favorite plugins and themes... IN 29 SECONDS
UltraSuite Theme  Pro UltraSuite Theme Pro comes with Additional  :-  1)  30 Lead Pages  2) 30 Optin Popops  3) 800 Graphics  4) 200 logos  5) TemplateBundle.net Access 6) Pluginexpert.net Access
LetSlotio Jacker Pro Gamify your Lead Generation for 3X More Leads and Sales.
Moto Theme DFY Premium Service Here's Your Ultimate Turn-Key Solution, Ready To Set Up Your WordPress Sites, And Relieve You From All Your Workload And Team Management Headaches!
Moto Image Editor - Monthly ( OTO 3 ) Moto Image Editor is a Stand Alone Tool where you can create any kind of graphics with just few clicks
ConversioBot PRO - Transforms Your Website Into A Leads and Sales Bot Internet’s #1 Chatbot For Websites. “AI” Technology Designed To Get You More Leads and More Sales On Autopilot! LOWEST One-Time Launch Special Price Today ONLY!
Birthday Firesale (Limited Time) Save 50-80% Off My Best Products + Buy 1 Get 1 FREE!
Easy Graphics Wizard 9-in-1 Graphics Software Suite with a Free Agency License!
PLR Sales Funnels - Combo Package - Downsell (2 Packages) Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
Aiwis Ambition Club (AAC) Downsell This is a trial for the ultimate way to keep up to date and ahead of the trends!
List Building 3.0 Biz in a Box Upsell 2 Get this Up-to-date "List Building 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
===
Confessions Of The Rainmakers [Full Transcripts Only] Get Instant Access to The Ultimate Business Secrets Of 9 Top Internet Marketers [And How To Use Those Secrets To Explode Your Own Business Too!]
ATB Sniper Trading Indicator This Trading Indicator Could Earn you $10k (or more) of extra profit returns per month by following the huge price action surges which signals over 100 times a day -Guaranteed!
KickassTuber Club - Yearly The World's First "All-In-One" YouTube Graphics And Video Branding Platform - Pro Club Yearly Membership
Link Indexr - OTO The #1 Link Indexing Tool which has the highest indexing rate in industry and help rank websites and videos in no time.
Smart Video Metrics + SyndLab 25k - qt Page 1 Rankings For BOTH Video and Niche Sites Made EASY With Automatic Syndication!
TV Boss TV Boss is world’s ONLY platform to let you create and manage Roku channels for your clients!  Having your own Roku TV channel gives you: - Money. In a click or two you setup the TV advertising. - Authority. Be the leader in your industry. - Traffic.
LetSlotio Elite Gamify your Lead Generation for 3X More Leads and Sales.
SpeakEz PRO Version Engage more users by adding voice to your web pages. Allow visitors to seamlessly transition from reading your content, into enjoying a captivating narrated audio version they can have read to them at their leisure.
Video Profit Machines 2.0  - Downsell 4 THE WORLDs #1 and RAPID VIDEO SYNDICATION SOFTWARE FOR GROUND-BREAKING TRAFFIC, LEADS and SALES!
The Fan Page Money Method Where The Money Is On Facebook And How To Get It.
SyVID - VidRankNeos Agency VidRankNeos Agency is a web based app that lets you rank your videos on YouTube and comes with agency license upgrade.
LeadUp - Lead Capture Addon For Elementor (Single Site Licence) LeadUp is the prominent Elementor Builder add-on which allows you to create stunning lead capture forms and facilitate lead capturing in just a few clicks.
ChatterBot - Template Club Join the template club to get your hands on new templates every month.
Stock Video Firesale Upsell Pack - PLR It is time to give your wallet a break for good with this Massive Upsell offer of 750+ Supreme, 4K Ultra High-Definition Video Bundle With Private Label Rights
RSSMasher 2 Launch - BASIC Version Here is the EASY button for Automating Your Social Media and Blogs with Celebrity Content and Experts that REALLY get Liked, Shared, and Followed
SociDeck Enterprise SociDeck is a feature-packed social media management software that converts social conversations into conversions by allowing users to manage their 3 biggest social media accounts- Facebook, Twitter and Instagram at one place.
SuperStores Pro Get this Breakthrough Software that Creates Self-Updating Ecom Stores with Inbuilt Product and Traffic Engine In Just 90 Seconds...
FBEngagr DFY VIP Club (Monthly) FBEngagr Allows You To Create Automated Interactive Poll Campaigns that Capture leads and Engage your Audience on FB Resulting to Massive sales and Buyers On Demand 100% Free!
