Whatever your feelings towards Donald Trump, you can't say that he isn't amusing.
He may not act in the most presidential way but hey, who doesn't want the most powerful man on the planet regularly tweeting and taunting his political rivals.
Elizabeth Warren announced that she would be running for the job and, in all likelihood, she probably won't even get the democratic nomination but who doesn't love a trier.
Posting on his personal Twitter account, POTUS wrote:
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Advertisement
The President also wasn't buying into the whole reducing your carbon footprint malarkey.
I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called “Carbon Footprint” to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military - even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!
There's never a dull day in Washington D.C.
Subscribe
News 4 days ago
News 5 days ago
Got a story? Contact news@buzz.ie.
Follow Us
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. Read more »
Welcome to Buzz.ie
We use cookies to improve your experience on our site and to show you relevant advertising.
Our partners will collect data and use cookies for ad personalisation and measurement.
More Options
You can change your choice at any time in our privacy policy.
You may see ads that are less relevant to you. These ads use cookies, but not for personalisation.
Back
Non-Personalised
Learn how our partners collect and use data:
