User Settings:
Your Name
Your Email
Message Included
Recipient Name
=>
◄ ► Bookmark ◄ ❌ ► ▲ ▼ Toggle AllToC ▲ ▼ Add to LibraryRemove from Library •  B Show CommentNext New CommentNext New ReplyRead More
ReplyAgree/Disagree/Etc. More... This Commenter This Thread Hide Thread Display All Comments
AgreeDisagreeLOLTroll
These buttons register your public Agreement, Disagreement, Troll, or LOL with the selected comment.  They are ONLY available to recent, frequent commenters who have saved their Name+Email using the 'Remember My Information' checkbox, and may also ONLY be used once per hour.
Email Comment Ignore Commenter Follow Commenter
Search Text 
Case Sensitive  
Exact Words  
Include Comments
List of Bookmarks
If the pollsters at CNN and CBS are correct, Donald Trump may have found the formula for winning a second term in 2020.
His State of the Union address, say the two networks, met with the approval of 76 percent of all viewers — 97 percent of Republicans, 82 percent of independents and 30 percent of Democrats. Seventy-two percent agreed with the president’s plans for securing the border with Mexico.
Trump was not only unapologetic in defense of his wall. He seemed to relish savaging the rising radicalism of Democrats on two critical issues many Democrats have, since their 2018 triumph, seized upon: abortion on demand, right up to the day of birth, and soak-the-rich socialism.
“Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” Trump thundered. “America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free.”
“America will never be a socialist country,” Trump roared, as the camera focused in on the scowling face of Sen. Bernie Sanders.
The GOP ovation was thunderous, the Democratic silence revealing. Understandable. For, as in the 1972 Nixon landslide, Democrats appear to be coming down with “McGovernism.”
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the rookie sensation in Nancy Pelosi’s House, has called for a U.S. income tax rate of 70 percent. As California and New York City have state and local tax rates of 12 percent that are no longer deductible on federal taxes, their most successful residents could be forced to fork over four-fifths of all income every year in taxes.
Some Democrats have called for an 80 percent federal tax rate. New Yorkers who earn $1 million a year would be allowed to keep less than a dime of every added dollar they earn.
Sanders would impose a 45 percent tax on all estates over $3.5 million, rising to 77 percent on estates worth $1 billion.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren has proposed a wealth tax to scoop off 2 percent of all the wealth of folks whose net worth reaches $50 million, and 3 percent of all the wealth of every billionaire, every year.
To ex-Mayor Mike Bloomberg, a potential rival in the presidential race, whose New York is witnessing an exodus of its wealthy to Sun Belt states, Warren’s ideas represent a gospel-of-greed stupidity.
Says Bloomberg: “If you want to look at a system that is not capitalistic, just take a look at what was perhaps the wealthiest country in the world and today people are starving to death. It’s called Venezuela.”
Democrats have also embraced the cause of “Medicare-for-all.”
Asked how private health companies that now insure 177 million people would fare under her health care system, Sen. Kamala Harris was dismissive: “Let’s eliminate all of that. Let’s move on.”
Trump also delivered in-your-face defiance to feminists who seek to guarantee unrestricted access to abortion on demand.
Recalling the celebration, as Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s guarantee of abortion rights up to the moment before birth became law, Trump declared:
“Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.
“These are living, feeling, beautiful babies who will never get the chance to share their love and dreams with the world.
ORDER IT NOW
“And then, we had the case of the governor of Virginia where he stated he would execute a baby after birth. To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother’s womb. Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life.
“And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: All children — born and unborn — are made in the holy image of God.”
Has any president, in any State of the Union, made a stronger statement in defense of life?
Are Democrats losing their minds? Only 13 percent of Americans believe in letting babies be aborted up to and through the ninth month of pregnancy. In what states are infanticide and socialism winning issues?
In this writer’s home state, Virginia, the resignation of Democratic Governor Ralph Northam, for “racism,” is being demanded by state and national Democrats, because he put on blackface for a Michael Jackson imitation at a dance 35 years ago.
Democratic Lieutenant Governor Justin Fairfax, whose ancestors were slaves on the Revolutionary War plantation of Lord Fairfax, has been accused of raping a young woman at the Democratic convention in 2004.
The next in line to succeed the governor, the attorney general, also a Democrat, has just admitted to wearing blackface when he was in school.
And Sen. Warren, says The Washington Post, listed “American Indian” as her race on a State Bar of Texas registration card in 1986.
Yet, according to her DNA and the Cherokee chief, she ain’t one.
Somebody up there likes Donald Trump.
Patrick J. Buchanan is the author of “Nixon’s White House Wars: The Battles That Made and Broke a President and Divided America Forever.”
Copyright 2019 Creators.com.
Save ListCancel
...to Follow
Save ListCancel
Endorsed Only
Trim Comments?
Trump Reverses Campaign Promise, Demands More Legal Immigration https://t.co/LFbudNTi1W via @BreitbartNews @JxhnBinder
#PrimaryChallengeTrumpFromTheRight2020
Rather than claiming Trump has found the formula for winning in 2020, it might be more accurate to say that the Democrats have hit upon the formula for losing.
What will be interesting if things turn out this way will be watching the mainstream media become completely discredited.  What happens if Trump wins reelection after their concerted assault?  Will anyone even notice them any longer?
His State of the Union address, say the two networks, met with the approval of 76 percent of all viewers — 97 percent of Republicans, 82 percent of independents and 30 percent of Democrats. Seventy-two percent agreed with the president’s plans for securing the border with Mexico.
Pat don’t get too giddy. Most of the viewers were Republicans. Trump has no plans to secure the border, if he did he would have done it. Talk is cheap. There is a lot of disappointment over his inaction on campaign promises .
Of course, but it’s not that difficult, and he’ll say one thing and do what his handlers want at the time. Besides, he can flip flop at any time and the Trumpettes will slither along with all of it. ( As would the Hillarenas if is were their turn.)
So what’s new?
Pat is saying that the winning formula formula for Trump is to talk and govern like Jeb who was roundly rejected early in the 2016 campaign.  That’s not good for the deplorables and if they don’t know any better or don’t care then they deserve to lose this country and have their grandchildren become mixed race aliens.
The second area where Pat’s analysis disappoints is that Trump made race based appeals to every major group in America…..except whites.  I would have been fine if Trump would have just said that things have improved for all Americans but he had to pull an Ivanka on us and recognize hyphenated Americans. The subtext of the SOTU is that whites don’t matter even under a “white supremacist” Trump presidency.
Pat has gotten the establishment memo and has learned what topics to avoid and what not to say to keep his syndicated column.  The old Pat would have called Trump out for his refusal to acknowledge the white majority.  He would risk deplatforming today and he instinctively knows this.
Radical, white hating negress Stacy Abrams also made racial appeals to every group except whites in her SOTU response.
It’s clear the long term vision of the U.S. does not include whites and the goal is to kill us off via interracial dating and marriages, job discrimination and the deliberate creation of a hostile racial environment that makes us willing to forego child bearing and increases our suicide rate.
As such, whites owe this nation or government no support whatsoever and should welcome the speedy demise of the Jewish occupation government.
time for Atlas to shrug
I generally like Pat’s articles, but he needs to remember what Lee Kuan Yew said (paraphrased from memory): “In a racially homogeneous society you vote your economic interest.  In a racially heterogenous society you vote your tribal identity.”
Almost none of the issues Pat identifies in his article will motivate black/brown/Asian/Jewish voters in 2020; they will vote for the non-white candidate.  Add in the whites who still reflexively vote Democratic and I see a 40-state blowout for whichever candidate the Democratic Party chooses to run.  Then one-party rule à la California.
Some have said that, with Trump’s SOTU betrayal on immigration, we might as well have elected Jeb Bush.  What good is a wall when most immigrants come here legally thru “chain migration?” What has happened to Trump’s promise, made before the 2018 midterms, to sign a Presidential Order banning Birthright Citizenship?  Obviously, he did it for votes, and never really meant it.
Unfortunately, it appears that Trump has once again pulled the wool over the eyes of most Republicans, where civic nationalism, and blindness to race reality and the coming non-white majority, remains the norm.  His working class white MAGA supporters have once again been thrown under the bus.
Trump NEEDS to be primaried from the Right in 2020.  But does such a person of national standing even exist?  America needs a younger Buchanan to run against him.  The current 80 year-old cheerleader seems to have sold out.
Maybe we’ll have another most-pivotal-ever-SCOTUS-appointment-confirmation-s**tflingathon in the meantime.  That won’t change anything, either.
Mr. Buchanan’s Beltway also shows when he references Venezuela without mentioning the shameful meddling of the Empire.  Does he think that place is falling apart due to the overtaxation of rich people?
anonymous[340] •  Disclaimer says:
For a different perspective to the one apparently endorsed by Mr. Buchanan, see here at Unz Brother Nathanael’s “Botching A Coup In Venezuela.”
When it comes to matters beyond his country, Pat Buchanan is not a dissident, but a right-sized imperialist.
…and I see a 40-state blowout for whichever candidate the Democratic Party chooses to run.
Even if Trump has only alienated 1% of the people who voted for him in 2016 by his flirtation with DACA amnesty and inability to get a wall built it will likely cost him Florida, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin in 2020 since he won those states by the slimmest of margins.  That’s 75 electoral votes. That means say hello to Kamala Harris in 2020.
If he just loses Florida and Pennsylvania that reduces his electoral college votes from 304 to 265 which means Kamala will have 273 electoral votes with a mandate to deliver the coup de grace to Reagan’s America.
I think Florida’s lost anyway with all the Puerto Ricans that moved there since 2016 and the felons now getting the vote.
As someone whose politics is far to the left of the Democrats, I have to admit that Pat Buchanan is probably right here.  All the talk about raising taxes is not helpful to the Democrats, particularly since they seem unable or unwilling to make it clear that they are only talking about taxing the most wealthy Americans.  They do need to find the money to pay for their proposals, if indeed they are at all serious about them.  There are only 2 ways:  raise taxes on the wealthy to near-confiscatory levels, or cut the Pentagon budget drastically putting an end to the constant wars.
If the handful of left-leaning Democrats in office were to ally themselves with the libertarian wing of the Republican Party in order to put an end to the needless and very expensive wars they might pick up a few votes.  But not to worry.  The “leadership” of the party is far more interested in getting campaign bribes from big business and Wall Street than in climate change, health care, education or any of the other policy ideas they pretend to care about.
Pat also correctly points to identity politics as another way the Democrats are losing elections.  For every vote from a person of color or female they get by virtue signaling, they lose others.  By feeding the racism/sexism memes they are splintering their own base and undermining the message from their left wing that points to a class divide.
The second area where Pat’s analysis disappoints is that Trump made race based appeals to every major group in America…..except whites. I would have been fine if Trump would have just said that things have improved for all Americans but he had to pull an Ivanka on us and recognize hyphenated Americans. The subtext of the SOTU is that whites don’t matter even under a “white supremacist” Trump presidency.
The one part where he talked about the disconnect between white Americans and the political class that lives behind walls got a very cool reception from the otherwise enthusiastic GOP.
Trump is getting ready to cave into all sorts of demands including citizenship for the 100s of thousands of Indians trained by Americans to take their jobs in tech. You know white people are too dumb for tech. According to Trump, we need more Indians.
Trump is going to give amnesty to thousands of illegals, permanency to temporary visas, and citizenship to Obama’s DACAs. In return there’ll be some empty promises of funding border security. But so long as we welcome those who assault our border with food, shelter, medical care and all the rights of citizenship, they’re going to keep coming in greater numbers, paid for with more taxes and more debt.
It’s Obama’s third term or Jeb!’s first, if you don’t count previous members of the family. And Trump thinks that by being nice to the Democrats they’ll stop trying to impeach him and have every white man in power apologize for something and step down. As Hillary put it, they’re just getting warmed up.
Right after the SOTU Trump announced he’s starting another campaign of empty promises to deplorable country. Any chance they stay home?
“Has Trump found the formula for 2020?
No. Aside from failing to get even a token appropriation for a token wall for two years of GOP control of the Congress, the fact that Trump assumes a fetal position under his desk when any lower Federal judge blocks anything he does, weeping “We’ll see you in a higher court” instead of telling lower courts to stuff their ultra vires rulings and to see him in a higher court if they dare, he has infinitely weakened Presidential preorogatives, perhaps irrecoverably.
“Democrats appear to be coming down with “McGovernism.””
Pro-life, former combat pilot George McGovern would be a Republican today if he was still alive.
Another point needs to be said about the duplicity of Pat’s column.  Regarding taxation, he knows full well that the 70% rate promoted by braindead AOC would not apply to all income.  Even AOC said as much.  The rate would be graduated, as today, with the 70% applying only to taxable dollars over whatever high threshold was chosen.
When Ike was potus the highest rate was 90%, and JFK was praised for lowering it to 70.  It was still 70% until Reagan lowered it to 50.  The current top rate stands at 35%, and look what it’s done to the deficit.  So I’m not crying crocodile tears over a top rate of 70%, which is not about to happen, and which most, thru various loopholes, probably wouldn’t pay anyway.
Will anyone even notice them any longer?
More importantly,will anyone even notice that things will keep changing for the worse, no matter who wins?
What good is a strategy for electing the same old crap coming out the ass-end of someone on the Red-squad vs. someone on the Blue squad?
Anonymous[262] •  Disclaimer says:
Says Bloomberg: “If you want to look at a system that is not capitalistic, just take a look at what was perhaps the wealthiest country in the world and today people are starving to death. It’s called Venezuela.”
Right – socialism has a failure imprinted in its DNA. That’s why it “failed” in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, tried to fail in Cuba but it didn’t. It’s all because socialism is a failure – there was never a generous outside “help” from you know who, to make socialism fail.
Not to worry, those were real socialisms that “failed”. When it’s time for the propaganda socialism to fail in the west – it’s going to do so without any help from outside, because its very existence is a result of an imbecilic idea in order to prolong the life of the geriatric capitalism.
One of the most interesting collective character traits of the Anglos is their affinity to cling to economic systems whose time has passed. Just look at their cousins in Great Britain. They are still clinging to feudalism via the fairy tale story of monarchy and queen and princesses. It’s a billion dollar industry over there – that’s how much it costs the retarded taxpayers to keep those parasites fat and giggly.
And then they say that the British people live their lives in quiet despair – you have to, when you are stupid.
But their American cousins tried to outdo them when they settled in their new colonies. They tried to cling to the economic system preceding feudalism – while at the same time preaching democracy. They’ll never be able to fix that disaster – ever. I don’t care how much they’ll ramp up their propaganda socialism – which is already on steroids – they’ll never fix that problem.
And now they are showing the same pathology – clinging to an economic system which is disaster for the 99% of the population – but works just fine for the all important 1%. And then they have the chutzpah to declare that the system that’s ahead of theirs in many respects – is a failure. Sure, but you keep holding onto your system – that’s a recipe for success.
If they are so much in love with capitalism, why don’t they find a way to keep the capitalist system going only for ceremonial purposes – like they keep feudalism alive in Britain.
Maybe organize a presidential motorcade once a month through Washington, drive around the city, have the crowd waive some flags and praise democracy.
I’ll have to part ways with Pat Buchanan about Trump’s prospects for 2020.
Trump went out of his way to push nation-wrecking mass legal immigration in his State of the Union speech and in an interview afterwards.
Trump pushes for more visa workers and guest workers and has frequently hinted at giving a massive amnesty to millions of illegal alien invaders.
Trump has not deported the 30 million illegal alien invaders that are in the USA.
Trump must be challenged and defeated in the 2020 GOP presidential primary.
Trump now says he wants more legal immigration https://t.co/TiCUjrQq8S pic.twitter.com/WfPEHArp1f
Excellent points all, Charles.  But cutting military spending alone won’t be enough at this point.  We need that plus substantial new tax revenue.
Trump should be proposing cuts in spending to garrison troops far abroad (not cuts to the size, readiness, quality, or pay of the military and their equipment) to pay for:
(1) an increase in the pathetically small Social Security benefits and
(2) a massive infrastructure project to repair and replace our failing bridges and highways, creating hundreds of thousands of good-paying construction jobs that will last for years
Then a high income tax on annual income over 2 million dollars per year and a new wealth tax on households with more than $100 million, with those limits both rising with inflation (meaning inflation calculated realistically, so that there is no “bracket creep”).
Use the revenues from the real elite to gradually ELIMINATE the federal income tax for the rest of us.  Let’s see the Democrats and the Republican establishment oppose that.  Put them all on record sticking up for the super-rich (mainly in dishonest, perverse, or useless occupations) at the direct expense of the rest of us.
Imagine the shrieking of the anti-nation, anti-white elites in both parties as their often ill-gotten loot is taken to actually protect and care for U.S. citizens who are working.  Let them flee the country, but only if they give up their US citizenship and passport and pay a hefty exit tax much larger than the wealth tax itself.  Then bar them from ever entering the US again or donating to any candidate, party, or PAC in our country, on penalty of extradition and life imprisonment.
And while I’m dreaming, how about a tax on foreign remittances to fund a wall and troops along the whole length of the border with Mexico.
“ instead of telling lower courts to stuff their ultra vires rulings and to see him in a higher court if they dare,…”
Man, he can’t even revoke a PRESS PASS! I hope ol’ Hickory reaches down from his portrait and stabs him in the neck for being such a cunt.
The Dems are getting more shrill, extreme, and offensive with their:
— Anti-Semitic block led by Omar & Talib
— Anti-Freedom, state control block led by Kamala & AOC
There is significant room for Trump to improve.
However, this looks like the DNC’s crazy McCain moment.  Almost anyone could win against these Dems.
The Puerto Rican vote in Florida is far from a lock for the Dems.
Remember, those who leave PR to come to Florida are the best and brightest who want to work for a real income.  That makes them very approachable to conservative values offered by parts of the GOP.
All Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens so illegal immigration is not wedge issue for the Dems, and may actually work for the GOP.  No one who works likes the wage suppression created by illegals.
Obviously, he did it for votes, and never really meant it.
I would to willing to go so far as to say “Obviously,” but the chances are looking higher than ever that this was/is the case.
There are a lot of theories on Trump, and one plausible one often heard from semi-trolls (among others) here at Unz.com is that he doesn’t have any principles and just exploited a market opening for people who would plant their flag close to, if not quite in, the populist-nationalist camp, which no major White politician has done since…when? Nixon? (And even Nixon had George Wallace to keep him honest from the right.)
Trump NEEDS to be primaried from the Right in 2020. But does such a person of national standing even exist?
A primary challenge Trump from the nationalist-right is possible but Trump had locked up so many low-information White voters and a personality cult has indeed emerged. Some say Ann Coulter could run, but this seems unlikely. Ann Coulter herself is pushing Mo Brooks of Alabama as a reliable, ideological walks-the-walk MAGA candidate.
Possible scenario:
– [2] Donald Trump again (All-MAGAtalk-No-Action, unreliable);
– [3] Candidate sympathetic to populist-nationalism (True MAGA, reliable), e.g. a more well-spoken Steve King, Tom Tancredo, 1990s-era Pat Buchanan, or Mo Brooks.
The way the delegate count falls would depend a lot on how states choose to allocate their delegates this time, some being winner-take-all and some being proportional and some being something else, with various systems in place for who may vote. Many states with open primaries may rack up big totals for [1] as left-wing, #AnyAdult2020 anti-Trump fanatics try to strategically vote to squeeze Trump out.
Probably [3] cannot win outright, but if [2] (i.e., Trump) fails to get a majority of delegates outright, [3] could be kingmaker. This may be the best realistic scenario. (The highly unrealistic but true Best Case would be [3] taking a majority of delegates.)
Talk is cheap. There is a lot of disappointment over his inaction on campaign promises.
The real metric of success or failure should not be Ann Coulter’s “Miles of the wall constructed,” but the following. In a perfect world, the State of the Union should have started with a run-down of these year-over-year numbers [#44 at link] (loss of 50,000 Whites; gain of 2 million Others):
Total White Non-Hispanics in the USA
1990: 188 million
2000: 194.5 million
2010: 196.8 million
June 2016: 197.83 million
June 2017: 197.80 million
June 2018: 197.75 million?
June 2019: 197.70 million?
1990: 60.5 million
2000: 87 million
2010: 112 million
June 2016: 125 million
June 2017: 127 million (Trump in office past four month mark)
June 2018: 129 million
June 2019: 131.25 million (Trump in office nearly 2.5 years)
Summary, Trump inauguration to mid 2019:
– Net loss of over 100,000 White Americans with no end in sight;
– Net gain of circa 5 million Others;
– The ‘Others’ net gain rises to nearly 9 million if starting at the moment the MAGA movement was born out of nowhere with the “Mexico is not sending its best” speech, June 2015. By the third quarter or 2015, MAGA had begun to galvanize White Americans politically into taking their own side for the first time in a very long time. Sadly for us, the spokesman was so highly imperfect.
MAGA Failure, or MAGA Betrayed?
I was not pleased with Trump’s statement on legal immigration.   But I have learned to watch what Trump does, not what he says.   After all, we are still awaiting the wall.
Perhaps Trump was mouthing platitudes that resonate with the boomers and normies.   We won’t know for sure until it happens.    But I do know that if Trump takes a hard line on “legal” immigration, which is our number one problem, it turns off too many of the normies in the GOP who have been brainwashed into believing all immigration is good so long as it is LEGAL.
The GOP base has  painted itself into a corner on immigration because they fear the racist charge.   So they try to get around it by saying they support immigration so long as it is legal.   We on this blog all know legal immigration is the killer.   But if anyone is aware of human nature, it is Trump.    Talking too much about legal immigration gets these folks nervous.
Look at what the open borders side said and did.   For years they told us open borders was a right-wing conspiracy pushed by wing-nuts.    Poll after poll showed the populace was not in favor.   Yet the open borders folks on both sides of the aisle essentially gave us open borders with their immigration invasion.    They never told us that they were going to replace us until they felt they had reached the point of no return.
I am not certain Trump is saying one thing on this and will be a restrictionist like Stephen Miller.   But clearly Trump knows it turns off a large chunk of the public to condemn legal immigration.   If Trump were to do what the open borders guys did, preach one thing and do another, I’d be fine.
Time will tell and I am in no way 100 percent sure Trump is still on board our team.   But I do know that the stuff we debate on this site and take for granted is still too radical for too many Whites to handle.   They have been beaten down so much with the brainwashing they can’t take it at this stage.
I’ve personally seen a few acquaintances of mine evolve.     They tuned me out if I poured too much at them up front.   Slowly parsing out the truth in small doses worked better.
Things can always get worse still (he said cheerfully).
Imagine, for example, that you were living amid the decay, confusion, and strife of the last decades of Tsarist Russia.
Things were about to get worse still — unimaginably worse.  Who’d a thought?
Vlad the Impaler II will make us yearn for the gentle follies of Trump and Obama.
After all, that’s why I voted for Trump.  I didn’t expect much from him — I merely wanted to stave off doom in the form of the Clintoness.
I have learned to watch what Trump does, not what he says
the stuff we debate on this site and take for granted is still too radical for too many Whites to handle. They have been beaten down so much with the brainwashing they can’t take it at this stage.
The only issue of importance in the long run may be the race issue. A proxy for the race issue is the immigration issue (under current immigration patterns, ofc). A proxy for the immigration issue is “illegal immigration.”
Populist-nationalists choose their level of rhetorical explicitness on this scale.
1 – The race issue — No one expects any national political figure to touch this for now, for the reasons you mention. Our regime over the past about sixty years has become quite hostile to this, deriving its own negative legitimacy therefrom, which is another story. Wandering too close to the race issue will cause the regime to destroy any (White man) who does. (see: Steve King).
2 – The immigration issue — People did expect Trump to deal with this, to reduce overall immigration and re-energize multi-generational-nativity Middle America(ns). That was pretty much literally his campaign platform in synopsis. I am certain the immigration issue is what got him through the primaries in early 2016, and it is probably what got him over the top in Nov. 2016. These voters will also be okay if Trump claims he is “for legal immigration” but does not act on it. He has had many opportunities for easy victories on this front (cancelling the Diversity Visa Lottery? Moves against H1B? Chain migration?) but has not delivered. No word lately on the Diversity Visa Lottery that he once tweeted against. No follow-up on ending Chain Migration that I know of.
_____________
As I see it, each of the above allow political space for the one above:
If there is no presence of 1, or a hated/pariah presence of 1 (i.e., appeals to race), then 2 (i.e., opposition to legal immigration) is undermined as ‘immoral’ or too extreme, as ‘Not Who We Are.’ If there is a trivial or no presence of 2, then 3 is undermined. If there is no presence of 3, we are indeed doomed politically, and essentially immediately so as if by imperial fiat: 25 million hostiles are citizened-in, amnestied in, at once, and perhaps doubling or more by Amnesty+10Years via chain migration.
So where does MAGA (mid 2015 to early 2017) fit in this scheme. I would say it opened up 2 (while still maintaining the traditional, post-1960s tight cordon sanitaire against 1 in the White world). The opening up of 2, in turn, totally energized 3, at least rhetorically in terms of political lines of battle. Trump turning against 2 will likely undermine the gains of MAGA and deflate 3.
In a racially homogeneous society you vote your economic interest. In a racially heterogenous society you vote your tribal identity.
I think you are giving Trump too much credit. He isn’t stupid but he isn’t a leader like he projected while campaigning. I believe it was Putin who said he was a weak man who craves adulation.
This is his problem. He doesn’t really want to lead and is always whining about why people won’t make a deal with him while he constantly negotiates with himself.
If you want to get things done you have to take things away from the other side if possible and make them come to the table. If Trump would have cancelled DACA on day one like he said, the Democrats would have come to the table to make sure they got something. They simply waited for Trump to melt away and didn’t have to do anything
No matter what, a lot of the populace is going to hate him irrationally. He must not have realized that and was not ready for it when he decided to run.
Anybody who was alive back during those day knows the tax code was littered with worthless BS that attracted a lot of money, the sole purpose of which was to create write-off at multiples of what was “invested”. Some of those were later disallowed forcing the people in them to pay massive back taxes and penalties.
A fried of mine had one such shelter. It was on the syndication of thoroughbreds. He claimed he got 5 times his investment in writeoffs over 5 years. When your combined federal and state income tax rate is over 60% (which didn’t take all that much of an income to get, rates were not indexed during the high inflation 70s), well you do the math.
“Trump’s….10 minutes of……holocaustianity”.
No surprise.  The speech was written by a West LA jew.   The 2% tribesters own ten times the wealth of the 50% middle and lower class deplorables and Trumpstein, the crypto jew, and his sponsors intend to keep it that way.
I think he was used to parrying with the press and it was always sort of fun.  I don’t think he realized what he’d be up against in the political realm, much less as an outsider President.  I wouldn’t be surprised if he lies awake in bed at night and (when he isn’t tweeting) says to himself, “Why did I let Ivanka talk me into this?”
I’m not ready to write him off as having no principles and not fulfilling more of his campaign promises.  In fact, if he appoints one more Supreme Court justice in the mold of Gorsuch or Kavanaugh, that will be good enough for me for the first four years.
Maybe I’m deluding myself, but I think he is a nationalist and is offended by the unfair trade agreements, lack of NATO support from our so-called allies, etc.  The real estate world that he comes from is ruthless but there are some rules of fair play.  I’m willing to give him his full first term.  As his sister, the judge, says, he will surprise you.
I dunno Grandpa Pat, but I still remember the “formula” from before Trump became President of Israel:
“…Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country…” (Trump , April 2016)
Ah, for the good ole days…….
Of course, Buchanan left out the fact that the US had a top rate that exceeded 90 percent through the 1950s and early 60s and a 70 percent top tax rate from 1971 through 1980. Then President Reagan got Congress to cut it to 50 percent starting in 1982.  So AOC’s proposal of 70 percent is in line with our (white) glory days.
“If the pollsters at CNN and CBS are correct, Donald Trump may have found the formula for winning a second term in 2020…”
Depends upon what poll.
“There are a lot of theories on Trump, and one plausible one often heard from semi-trolls (among others) here at Unz.com is that he doesn’t have any principles and just exploited a market opening for people who would plant their flag close to, if not quite in, the populist-nationalist camp, which no major White politician has done since…when? Nixon? (And even Nixon had George Wallace to keep him honest from the right.)”
It is more than plausible, and it has been repeated not by “semi-trolls”, but by down-to-earth, wholesome normies.  Of course, the 20% of Trump’s supporters will more than likely not buy into the fact that they were duped by his grandiosity.
“Time will tell and I am in no way 100 percent sure Trump is still on board our team.”
Trump is a free agent who is only in it for the fame-whoring and the moolah.
“But I do know that the stuff we debate on this site and take for granted is still too radical for too many Whites to handle. They have been beaten down so much with the brainwashing they can’t take it at this stage.”
And this is where you are decidedly wrong on the issue.  Whites have been “handling” it quite well.  They have not been brainwashed or duped, lest you admit that they truly lack the requisite IQ to be able to disseminate fact from propaganda.  Rather, whites have been NOTICING trends, making assessments, and figuring out for themselves what they interpret to be the truth.  You overestimate significantly this “manipulation” of their self-interests.  That is other than surprising, since this argument has been used in the past before whenever one group of whites believe that another group of whites have been bamboozled.
Regarding the possibility of Trump getting a crack at another Supreme Court pick, how likely is it that the aliens who really run things will get away with covering up RBG’s death for the whole year?  (lol).
Let’s not forget McConnell’s imposition of the “Biden Rule” after Scalia’s death.  Obama’s pick to replace him could not even get a hearing.  If that holds, it means Trump will not be able to get another SC nominee thru the Senate in 2020.
IMO, he shouldn’t care and is wealthy enough to start speaking truth to power.  But I believe he has an intense need to feel that he’s nationally relevant and shaping the national discourse and the only way to do that is to keep your syndicated column by parsing your words on race, Jews and Israel.  Getting kicked off of MSNBC for speaking out on behalf of whites in his books and columns seems to have sent him an unforgettable message.
Guys like Giraldi and Paul Craig Roberts are more interested in speaking the truth using alternative platforms than getting invites to FOX, CNN and the D.C. cocktail circuit.
Trump is either plain stupid or just playing 4D chess when he said America will never be socialist but that he wants the highest number of legal immigrants ever.  The latter ensures the former.
More “legal” immigration means more anti-American/anti-white reps from shithole nations like AOC, Ilhan Omar who married a sibling and Rashida Tlaib who are all either pushing for hard socialism and wealth redistribution or amenable to varying degrees of it.
The evidence is now in and assimilation of third world racial groups has failed utterly.  Only a white boomer like Trump could believe otherwise.  By their words and deeds the vast majority are here not as fellow citizens but as conquerors and colonizers.
Yeah, I forgot about all the liberal New Yorkers and Connecticut people and others from the Northeast who retired to Florida and are helping to transform in into a left wing stronghold.  This is similar to how all the white Californians moving to Denver and flipping Colorado red to blue and are in the process of doing the same in Texas.
Ted Cruz just won a race that shouldn’t have been close but was and Democrats picked up thirteen seats in the Republican dominated state house.  Texas will be be a “battleground state” by 2024 and could be solid blue by 2028.
This crony-corrupt system includes thousands in monthly welfare (free food, housing, electricity and monthly cash that increases per birth) and / non-refundable & refundable child tax credits up to $6,431 that make it easier for the average employed citizen or noncitizen in the USA to work part time, for low wages, undercutting the many non-welfare-eligible / non-womb-productive / non-tax-advantaged / single citizens, the many non-welfare-eligible / non-custodial single parents and the many non-welfare-eligible / non-tax-advantaged single citizens with kids over 18 who need for earned-only income from one person per household to cover all household bills.
For the exact same reasons, I will not be giving Democrats, like Elizabeth Warren, my very reliable vote, as one of the 28% of childless citizens (and likely voters) over age 40.
We are a group that is totally ignored by politicians, but a group that is much, much more likely to vote than most of those enjoying the womb-productivity spoils system, with all of the kickbacks from the progressive tax code and the other government-issued wage boosters.
I have voted in every midterm and general election since I was eligible to vote, unlike most people polled, and I am pretty sure that there are a lot of equally reliable voters in the womb producers’ group who, despite all of their tax and workplace privelges during their younger years, share parallel resentments to mine.
I am tired of voting for candidates who heap on refundable and non-refundable child tax credit increases in the thousands, rewarding often frequently absentee and above-firing crony parents who already enjoy higher paychecks due to dependency and witholding in the progressive tax code, and it is especially grating when those enjoying the womb-productivity spoils system have not jumped through the same hoops.
I have walked into many, many offices, with my useless bachelor’s degree and 4 equally useless “legally required” licenses, seeing nothing but non-college-educated and non-licensed moms, taking off from work all the time or working part time, officially, to stay under the earned-income limits for welfare in excused-absenteeism bully gangs.
Those moms in their openly discriminatory 98–100% mom-staffed workplaces were armed with spousal income, rent-covering child support or welfare and / or child tax credits, enabling them to undercut college-educated license holders with none of that unearned income.
I went to the trouble, and the recurring hoop-jumping testing and expense, to get and maintain those licenses, but get no benefit from it in this rigged system, even in cases where absentee crony moms do not meet quotas.
But I still face rent costs that are insurmountable for single, non-welfare-subsidized, non-tax-advantaged people. Rent has gone up 72% between 1995 and today, not to mention other everyday costs, including the expense of a car for the responsible people who maintain insurance. Many of the womb producers subsidized six ways to Sunday by Democrats and Republicans, with a child tax credit up to $6,431 to spend as they please on top, do not bother paying for insurance.
Politicians in both parties let me know in every policy gesture that my economic interests do not count since nothing exited my birth canal, letting me know that the economic interests of even noncitizens with birth-canal exits, but with no eligibility to vote, will be put first.
They don’t want my single, childless vote, even though I am one of a small group of voters that actually shows up to vote even in the midterms. Although I made the mistake of voting for Republicans again in the midterms, I will be writing in a name in all future elections. I am tired of voting against myself in this brutal, part-time, churn-gig economy, with the crony-parent-rigged labor market.
But politicians do want the votes of married womb producers, many of whom footed the bill to educate their kids in practical majors, whether that is the upscale parents who paid for their kids to get a 4-year CS degree or the working-class ones who paid for their kids to get a 2-year IT degree.
And politicians are undercutting them, too, by continuing to admit millions of legal immigrants and granting the higher paid womb-productive ones non-refundable tax credits.
Republican policies are also still undercutting many non-custodial, male parents, competing with legal and illegal immigrants for manual jobs. Their legal / illegal immigrant competition can often afford to work for less due to being armed with the full array of monthly welfare benefits and refundable child tax credit cash.
All their womb-productive wives or gfs have to do is submit SS cards from US-born kids and proof of traceable income from a male breadwinner that falls below the earned-income limits for welfare during working months, just like the single mothers who have their own strategically low earned-income stream, qualifying them for welfare and child tax credit cash that enables them to work crony-mom office jobs on the cheap.
Welfare usage among womb-productive illegal aliens is only down 10%.
Republicans cut down by 5 million the over-40-million welfare-consumption pool by going after the group that is eligible for the least amount of welfare: the ABAWDs, the Able Bodied Persons Without Dependents who with few exceptions qualify for nothing but 3 months of EBT every three years for a grand total of less than $400 in free food-only every three years. Most ABAWDs, however hungry and underemployed, never bother to apply for that small amount.
It is not worth the trouble.
The average single mom or illegal alien mom qualifies for that much in just free food every month, not counting her monthly cash assistance in almost the same amount, her free electrcity, her subsidized housing and the lump-sum tax-cash reward for non-income-taxpaymg womb producers of up to $6,431.
In most cases, she’s not registered to vote or is not eligible to vote.
Republicans are really targeting the responsible womb producers, the older parents who actually show up to vote, just like they responsibly pay for their kids’ education. They are not targeting the much less reliable voting group of their young, college-educated kids, working low-wage jobs in the youth-dominated luxury-services sector while living in their basement, even though their voting parents shelled out to educate them for living-wage jobs.
After their parents spent all that money, Democrats and Republicans continue to support the importing of millions of Third World workers to replace their basement-dwelling kids in the labor market.
Don’t think most of the likely-voter womb producers that Republican strategists are targeting are fooled any more than likely voters like me.
An election “formula” Pat? You bet!
How’z about the one we were lectured about over and over again?:
Tax cuts for the “middle class”!
Affordable universal healthcare!
Non-interventionist foreign policy!
After all, a certain candidate in 2016 (now president) confidently lectured us:
“… I’d like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace…
…We’ve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they’re starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good…
…However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength…”
What a shyster.
2020 Pat?
What about Trump’s formula for 2019 in Tel Aviv (sorry, Jerusalem)?
Go Trump! Israel needs you…….
“It is funny that you have stopped spewing all the drivel about Mueller having Trump by the balls…”
The reality is that is not a laughing matter.  But if you want to get bulldozed later on by truth and shake your head how you got ram-rodded good and hard, rather than deal with it head-on now and in a mature fashion, be my guest.
Race Matters, And We Need To Say So!
Race Is The Whole Ball Of Wax, And We Need To Say So!
Race Is Upstream From Culture and Civilization, And We Need To Say So!
Divine, To Define, She Is Moving To Define, So Say So, So Say So — Talking Heads and Brian Eno
"Race matters and we need to say so," says @ewarren , who recently apologized for falsely representing herself as Native American.
"We can't be blind to the fact that the roles in our country have been rigged against other people for a long time…and we need to call it out" pic.twitter.com/DjqM7fbwR8
Step aside Warren, “the Swede” has your back.
There was a huge divide in the tax code between people with means and those without. The difference was not in the taxes but in the jobs. Anybody could get a decent factory job.
Without all the deductions, the government took most of your pay even for a junior engineer like me. It forced people into things like buying a house they couldn’t afford since the government was paying so much of your payment. This was no way to incetivise people. How could some renter in a mid-level income job ever accumulate enough money to have the down payment to get out of that trap?
The debt had nothing to do with the tax rates. Reagan’s tax cut was revenue neutral. The problem is the low wages thanks to immigration and outsourcing and the boom and bust economy that requires increasing the deficit during bust times and doing nothing to close the gap during boom times.
Pat, what “formula” did the president’s father (Fred C.) favour?
It sure is fun reading “history” like this – as you must know having worked for tricky dicky:
‘Was Donald Trump’s KKK father, Fred C. Trump, ever a member of the German Bund and a Nazi supporter? The 1st edition of “The Art of the Deal” lies and says the family is Swedish, not German. Why? Has anyone checked FBI Bund membership records?’
By feeding the racism/sexism memes they are splintering their own base and undermining the message from their left wing that points to a class divide.
It no longer matters at this point. Abrams nearly won GA running on a radical anti-white agenda. There aren’t enough whites left to make a difference.
If Trump squeaks by in 2020, then in 2024 it’ll be over. Or, 2028. Doesn’t matter. At some point in the future, democracy will be weaponized against whites due simply to demographics. The brown hordes will vote consistently for whatever “woke” neo-liberal offers them the most money.
Its a load of crock, really.
Trump may not levy visible, straightfoward taxes on the incomes of wealthy Americans, but, he will do what Republicans have been doing for the last 40 years…raise the inflation tax while sounding off about being a ‘fiscal conservative’. Confiscate spending power from all Americans, but particularly less wealthy Americans with ever greater deficit spending (and rampant unbacked money creation from wall street too, i might add), thus diluting the purchasing power of their dollars. A far more insidious form of taxation, and one that has essentially condemned the middle class to zero real income growth since the 1970s, in spite of productivity meaning people should need only work 3 days a week in 2018 to achieve the same living standard a 5 day week in 1970 afforded.
And free markets? HAH! gimme a break. The US healthcare Industrial Complex, that which accounts for 1/5th of US GDP, soon to be 1/4 of US GDP, nearing 3 times the cost of other industrialized nations, depends on the complete absence of the free market. Americans do, and will continue to, pay many multiples more than the rest of the world for pharmaceuticals. Trump has done zero about it.
If Trumps speech was a success, it was more because of the comatose state of the american voters consciousness and/or poll gerrymandering.
As it becomes clear Trump isnt serious on immigration, healthcare will likely be the defining issue of 2020, as, indeed it has in many local elections, regardless of whether Trump wants to talk about it…
Deplorables:  But we don’t want DACA recipients to get green cards and a path to citizenship.
Trump: Well screw you, because Jared and Ivanka and my billionaire buddies want it so you might get it.
Deplorables:  But we want a real wall like you promised during the campaign and that Israel is allowed to have.
Trump:  Yeah, well bollard fencing just might have to do.  What are you gonna do about it? Stay home in 2020 and let Kamala the knee pad princess get elected?
Deplorables:  But we don’t want record numbers of legal third world immigrants and you said you’d work to reduce legal immigration, the H1B visa racket and eliminate the diversity lottery.
Trump:  Well screw you, because Jared and Ivanka and my billionaire buddies want it so you’re probably going to get it.
Deplorables:  But we don’t want a criminal justice reform bill that lets violent blacks out of prison way too early.
Trump: So what? I’m trying to win the black vote and helping blacks makes me really feel good about myself.
Deplorables: But blacks hate you and won’t vote for you or the Republican party anyway. It never works.
Trump:  Jared said they would and he’s much smarter and knows more than any of you flyover rubes.  And he’s Jewish, too!!!
Deplorables:  Why are you letting your supporters get violently attacked by antifa, persecuted by the DOJ and thrown off major internet platforms like Twitter and Facebook?
Trump: Is that a question?  Besides, I never said I was superman.
Deplorables:  So you’re just another swamp Republican and a lesser of two evils.
Trump: Wrong!  This is all totally in line with my MAGA agenda (fingers crossed behind back).
Trump Pushes Nation-Wrecking Mass Legal Immigration.
Trump wants to flood the United States of America with tens of millions of foreigners.
Trump has not begun the mass deportation of the 30 million illegal alien invaders in the USA.
Trump wants to pour more guest worker foreigners and visa worker foreigners and other foreigners into the USA.
Trump wants to massively increase the amount of green cards handed out to invading foreigners.
Trump has stabbed the American people in the back by siding with Jared Kushner and Shelly Adelson and the globalizers and the GOP ruling class and the GOP Cheap Labor Faction.
Trump has treasonously sided with the mass legal immigration fanatics and the globalizers.
Just call them legal and then everything is fine. Right? That was what you said in the State of the Union anyway. https://t.co/4cDYnqkr41
State and local taxes were still totally deductible. Property taxes had nothing to do with the federal tax rate. Federal taxes back then were in no way subsidizing state and local governments. There is more federal subsidizing now than back then and the federal tax rate is higher than under Reagan.
It was revenue neutral because all the tax scams were gone. I know I paid less and I didn’t have anything other than a mortgage interest deduction.
And free markets? HAH! gimme a break. The US healthcare Industrial Complex, that which accounts for 1/5th of US GDP, soon to be 1/4 of US GDP, nearing 3 times the cost of other industrialized nations, depends on the complete absence of the free market. Americans do, and will continue to, pay many multiples more than the rest of the world for pharmaceuticals. Trump has done zero about it.
This may stand as the most ass-backward statement in the history of the world. The US is the ONLY industrialized country with a completely free market health care system. Every other country has some form of socialized medicine. Even if they have private health care companies administering it, they have a nation agency that negotiates with medical device makers and pharmaceutical companies to determine the price the companies can charge. The reason why the companies don’t walk away is because they operate on such insanely high profit margins that they are still making a ton of money.
NOBODY in the US is forced to take on patients and any insurance company can opt out of any health care requirement. No insurance company is forced to stay in the Obamacare exchanges. No insurance company is forced to set its rates according to a government dictate. Any minor controls such as limiting the amount of rate increases is easily countered by simply exiting the exchange.
It always amazes me that libertarians think the free market is exactly the opposite of what it is. It must be because they think things are always improved by the free market. By that reasoning if somebody is doing it better, it must be because they have a freer market than the other guy no matter the actual circumstances.
Trump and the GOP ruling class push mass legal immigration.
Trump and the GOP Cheap Labor Faction want to flood more guest worker foreigners and green card foreigners and visa worker foreigners into the USA.
Trump and the GOP donors push mass legal immigration and illegal immigration and multicultural mayhem.
George W Bush and George HW Bush both pushed mass legal immigration and amnesty for illegal alien invaders.
Trump and George W Bush and George HW Bush and Ronald Reagan all push or pushed mass legal immigration and multicultural mayhem.
Tom Cotton is a treasonous rat who pushes mass legal immigration.
Tom Cotton is a treasonous rat who puts the interests of Israel ahead of the interests of the United States.
Tom Cotton wants to flood the United States with more green card foreigners and visa scam foreigners and guest worker foreigners.
We get more pushes for legal immigration, green cards and outright amnesty under the GOP. It has been this way for decades. The moment you give them power they fall all over themselves to see who can score the most cheap labor for their donors. It's like a contest with them https://t.co/scGQbVRSey
Wait Pat – I have it! I know the formula for 2020:
“Tax cuts for corporations and billionaires that ‘pay for themselves’ – well, at least after deficit financing bonds are issued for the next 10 years…”
Sound familiar? Reagan, Stockman, Kansas?
Way to go Pat!
They’ll get very serious about impeachment.
It is possible Pence would be a better MAGA president than Trump has turned out to be.
Based on Pence’s history that’s not likely.  He supported amnesty efforts as a congressman during the Dubya administration and is a Christian Zionist who worships the Jewish people and Israel.  He’s also big supporter of American empire to benefit Israel.
‘…They’ll get very serious about impeachment.’
I’m sure that will keep them out of mischief.  However, absent a two-thirds majority in the Senate for conviction, it’s meaningless — and they won’t get that.
Wrong. I am not a libertarian, and have not been for some years. It is just that it is barely conceivable to imagine a more dysfunctional concoction of rent seeking and unproductive directives than exist in the sphere of US healthcare.
Firstly, you are confusing free-market and private ownership.  It is entirely possible to have private ownership & no free market. The state monopoly on planning via the permit system is the most obvious example. The actors demanding permits are, typically private. But the supplier issuing them, most certainly isnt.
Firstly, you have CON laws, creating a constant undersupply of Hospitals, MRI clinics and so forth…
These panels are ejudicated by state boards filled with industry insiders who, not surprisingly, want supply restricted so prices remain high.
They may not be forced to serve, but they in practical terms, they near as damn it may as well be. To gain access to profitable medicare and medicaid funds, they must be signatories to the EMTALA act, which requires them to treat anyone dropped off, regardless of whether they have insurance, funds or no ability to pay….
So basically, the formula for 2020 is “have an opposition party that can botch a wet dream.”
So far, it looks like he might be able to pull that strategy off.
An Optional Website or Link
A Real or Fictitious Email (always hidden)
 
Remember My InformationWhy?
Use of multiple, non-Anonymous handles for commenting on this webzine is strongly discouraged, and your secret (real or fictitious) email allows you to authenticate your commenter-identity, preventing others from assuming it, accidentally or otherwise.
Therefore, keeping your Name+Email combination is important, and the 'Remember' feature saves it for you as a cookie on your device/browser.
Also, activating the 'Remember' feature enables the Agree/Disagree/LOL/Troll buttons on all comments.
 
Body of Comment
Submitted comments become the property of The Unz Review and may be republished elsewhere at the sole discretion of the latter
Michael Collins Piper
I still have some memories of Chicago in the early 1950s. My great uncle lived on South Drexel. I used to play on the parkway when we visited. A white person would be taking his/her life into his/her hands to walk down that block today. I get that something had to be done with all the black farm ...
He's upped the value of previously fertile postmenopausal women. A hell of a lot of small businesses are going to change ownership.
