Advertisement
Trump does NOT wait for his CUE from Pelosi to start the State of the Union, but does offer to 'end years of political stalemate' IF he gets his way, then slams the Democrats on immigration, demands abortion clampdown and condemns socialism
President Trump delivered his second State of the Union address Tuesday night at the US Capitol 
He began with a snub to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi by starting his speech before she could introduce him 
It's traditional for the speaker to introduce the president before an address to a Joint Session of Congress
Trump called on Congress, including Democrats, to 'break decades of political stalemate' 
The president blasted Democratic lawmakers for opposing his wall on the US-Mexico border 
He drew audible groans from lawmakers from the opposing party as he spoke on illegal immigration
Half of Congress was angered when Trump demanded an end to laws permitting late-term abortions 
Guests of the president included astronaut Buzz Aldrin, former inmate Alice Johnson, survivors of the Tree of Life synagogue mass shooting, and the family of a couple slain by an undocumented immigrant 
President Donald Trump began Tuesday's State of the Union address by snubbing the woman who has given him the most heartburn in the past five weeks.
In a speech designed to call for 'cooperation, compromise and the common good' instead of partisan bickering and 'the politics of revenge,' Trump struck an unlikely chord at a time when disunity holds Washington and the nation captive.
Trump called on Congress, including the Democrats ' new House majority, to 'break decades of political stalemate' and put country over party.
He called for a law mandating nationwide paid family leave for new parents, a priority of his daughter Ivanka that drew cheers from both sides of the aisle.
But he angered half of Congress by demanding an end to laws permitting late-term abortions, and stung the far left by condemning trendy socialism.
And he gave House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, his official host for the annual speech, the cold shoulder.
It's traditional for the speaker to introduce the president before an address to a Joint Session of Congress. Instead, Trump walked behind the podium and began speaking right away.
A senior House Democratic aide acknowledged Tuesday night that Trump 'blew through the customary introduction by the speaker.'
But Pelosi brushed off the idea Trump snubbed her. 
'What do you mean? I introduced him,' Pelosi told reporters as she left the Capitol after the speech. 'I did introduce him. I said, 'Members of Congress, I present you the president of the United States.' There was no snub.'
'It went quickly, I guess.'
Trump began the evening on a hopeful, bipartisan note.
'I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans,' Trump began, describing Americans as 'hoping that we will govern not as two parties, but as one nation.'
President Trump took the stage in front of Vice President Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to say the 'state of our union is strong' during his address 
President Donald Trump greets House speaker Nancy Pelosi with a handshake on the podium before giving her the cold shoulder once he began the address
President Trump faces lawmakers as he delivers the State of the Union address at the US Capitol in Washington, DC
Trump and Pelosi gave each other an amicable greeting at the State of the Union before Trump failed to allow her to introduce him - a tradition -  before beginning his speech  
US First Lady Melania Trump waves at the crowd inside the US Capitol wearing black along with Senior Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump
The House of Representatives chamber is full at the US Capitol for President Trump's address 
'We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions, and unlock the extraordinary promise of America's future. The decision is ours to make,' he said.
'We must choose between greatness or gridlock, results or resistance, vision or vengeance, incredible progress or pointless destruction. Tonight I ask you to choose greatness.'
Minutes later the president blasted lawmakers, mostly those on the left, for opposing his top agenda item – hundreds of miles of steel walls on the southern border.
'Wealthy politicians and donors,' he complained, 'push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.'
Democrats groaned when he referred to a 'moral duty' to protect Americans from an 'onslaught' of migrants forming a new caravan in Central America and heading north.
He demanded 'a new physical barrier, or wall, to secure the vast areas between our ports of entry,' while chastising lawmakers for their unwillingness to comply.
'In the past, most of the people in this room voted for a wall. But the proper wall never got built,' he said. 'I'll get it built.'
Pelosi chatted with Vice President Mike Pence, visible to the world behind the man of the hour, rising only to applaud patriotic, nonpartisan lines.
She wasn't amused to hear the president castigate her party for what's expected to be two years of aggressive congressional probes into everything from White House security clearances to as-yet unproven links between Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian agents.
After his remarks she claimed it 'will take days to fact-check all the misrepresentations' in his speech.
'It will take days to fact-check all the misrepresentations that @realDonaldTrump made during tonight's #StateOfTheUnion address,' she tweeted.
Trump also touched on one of his favorite bête noirs – the investigations against him. 
'An economic miracle is taking place in the United States,' Trump said, 'and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous, partisan investigations.'
'If there is going to be peace and legislation, there can't be war and investigation. It just doesn't work that way,' he scolded.
But Pelosi and women in her caucus erupted into cheers when Trump pumped up his economic performance by highlighting gains made by females in the U.S. workforce.
'No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58 percent of the new jobs created in the last year,' he said. 
Trump says 'our military is the most powerful on earth by far' in his second State of the Union Tuesday night 
Female Democratic lawmakers cheered as the president said there are more women in Congress than ever before 
The Democrat section of the House chamber was a sea of white as the women (and a few men) wore the same color in a united front 
Speaker of the US House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi (R) stands, flanked by US Vice President Mike Pence, ahead of the State of the Union address
Eric Tump, Donald Trump Jr and Tiffany Trump applaud as their father gives the presidential address
Ivanka Trump, wearing a black ensemble and red lip, arrives at the US Capitol for the State of the Union address with sister-in-law Lara Trump 
Vice President Pence gave Trump a standing ovation while Nancy Pelosi remained seated and looked through a copy of the speech 
Speaker Pelosi said afterward it would take days to fact check the president
Democratic women, most notably the record-breaking newly elected freshmen, leapt to their feet and high-fived each other while Republicans laughed along at the unusual agreement.
Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, a New York Democrat who is among the foes aiming to replace him in 2020, flashed a gamely thumbs-up with both hands.
'You weren't supposed to do that!' Trump joked, patting himself on the back for presiding over 'more women in the workforce than ever before.'
As the Democratic women began to take their seats, Trump again went off-script.
'Don't sit yet. You're going to like this!' he said. 'Exactly one century after the Congress passed the Constitutional amendment giving women the right to vote, we also have more women serving in the Congress than ever before.'
Shouts of 'USA! USA!' rang out from both sides of the chamber.
Many of the same women recoiled ten minutes later as Trump followed his paid family leave advocacy with a pro-life appeal.
'Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments before birth,' he said.
'These are living, feeling, beautiful babies who will never get the chance to share their love and dreams with the world. And then, we had the case of the Governor of Virginia where he basically stated he would execute a baby after birth.'
'To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother's womb.'
The president also revealed his plan to meet with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un a second time on February 27 and 28, in his bid to kill off the hermit kingdom's nuclear weapons program.
'Our hostages have come home, nuclear testing has stopped, and there has not been a missile launch in 15 months,' Trump said.
Democrats moaned and signed when Trump claimed that his 2016 election victory was the only thing sparing the United States from a military clash.
'If I had not been elected President of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea with potentially millions of people killed,' he claimed.
Alice Johnson, who was released from prison by Donald Trump after a push by Kim Kardashian, was a special guest at Tuesday night's address and got emotional when recognized 
Donald Trump gave an nod to astronaut Buzz Aldrin, who saluted as he was recognized for the 50th anniversary of the first moon landing
First Lady Melania Trump invited  Joshua Trump, a 6th grade student from Delaware who has been bullied because of his last name, and cancer survivor Grace Eline to Tuesday night's speech 
Debra Bissell, Madison Armstrong and Heather Armstrong (right to left) are acknowledged by Trump as his guest. Bissel's (right) mother and father were allegedly killed by an undocumented immigrant
Matthew Charles, who was released from prison under the First Step Act, was one of Trump's guests at the State of the Union
The Democratic women were all in white to honor the suffragettes as they sat during the SOTU 
Supreme Court Justices John Roberts, Elena Kagan, Neil Gorsuch, and Brett Kavanaugh were in attendance Tuesday night 
Freshman Rep Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez celebrated with other Democrat women during the address Tuesday
Trump took victory laps for opening a new U.S. embassy in Jerusalem, calling off an intermediate-range missile treaty with Russia and withdrawing America from an Obama-era nuclear deal with Iran.
'It is a radical regime,' he said of Iran's mullahs. 'They do bad, bad things.'
Boasting of toughened sanctions against Tehran, Trump declared that America 'will not avert our eyes from a regime that chants death to America and threatens genocide against the Jewish people.'
He also claimed credit for shrinking the ISIS terror army's Middle Eastern caliphate, even as he stood firm on his plan to pull U.S. troops away from the scene of that success.
'When I took office, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. Today, we have liberated virtually all of that territory from the grip of these bloodthirsty killers,' he said.
'Now, as we work with our allies to destroy the remnants of ISIS, it is time to give our brave warriors in Syria a warm welcome home.'
The president said he was hopeful for talks with the Taliban aimed at ending hostilities in Afghanistan.
But he took a more forceful stand on Venezuela, where the U.S. has recognized an opposition leader as the de facto president after watching the oil-rich nation descend into economic chaos brought on by Nicolás Maduro's socialist revolution.
'We stand with the Venezuelan people in their noble quest for freedom, and we condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair,' Trump said.
'Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. ... Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.
Sen. Bernie Sanders, 74, and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 29, sat tight-lipped as their cause célèbre got a presidential skewering.
Trump marked the 75th anniversary of America's launch of the military campaign to liberate Europe in World War II, and the 50th anniversary of the first moon landing.
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
Elderly veterans and astronaut Buzz Aldrin stood and acknowledged applause. Aldrin, who once planted the U.S. flag on the lunar surface, wore an Old Glory-styled necktie and saluted the podium.
And Trump acknowledged Alice Johnson, a nonviolent drug offender who he ordered released from federal prison last year in the first step toward a broader criminal justice reform effort.
But the nongovernmental star of the night was Judah Samet, a Holocaust survivor who celebrated his 81st birthday on Tuesday.
Samet was also among the survivors of a gun massacre just months ago at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, nearly 75 years after Americans liberated him and his family.
Moments after Trump acknowledged him, the entire Congress and their guests serenaded him with a 'Happy Birthday' song.
After Samet rose and yelled 'Thank you!' at the top of his lungs, the president cocked his head in a near-chuckle.
'They wouldn't do that for me, Judah,' he said.
The president's centerpiece Tuesday night was a renewed call for border security funding, including money for his long-promised border wall.
'This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier -- not just a simple concrete wall. It will be deployed in the areas identified by border agents as having the greatest need, and as these agents will tell you, where walls go up, illegal crossings go way, way down.'
'Simply put,' he said, 'walls work and walls save lives.'
The president didn't make a move on Tuesday toward short-circuiting the legislative process by declaring a national emergency, a decision that would allow him to take border security into his own hands and leave Congress on the sidelines.
Trump can use a 43-year-old law to suspend some limitations on his power to spend money if he declares that a national emergency exists. That would give him a path to erect a barrier between Mexico and the U.S. with billions of dollars Congress has already allocated for the Defense Department and other agencies.
That move, if he makes it, would likely come February 15, when money runs out for about one-quarter of federal government spending.
New Jersey Senator and 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker (center)  is flanked by New Jersey Sen Bob Menendez (right), and Sen Ron Wyden (left) 
Rep Ilhan Omar left, and Rep Rashida Tlaib, the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, sat together during Tuesday night's address
Bernie Sanders gave a foul reaction to Donald Trump, who aggressively shot down his socialist agenda 
New York Representative (D) Alexandria Octavio-Cortez poses for a picture with other women in white 
Donald Trump greeted Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh with a handshake as he arrived to the US Capitol 
Special guest of the President Alice Johnson was seated alongside Trump family members Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump, and Lara Trump
Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren arrives to the address not in white, but in royal blue and black 
Rep. Donna Shalala, D-Fla, speaks to counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway
The White House has proposed a trade: the $5.7 billion in border wall money in exchange for legal status for 700,000 'Dreamers' enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, and another 400,000 in the country under Temporary Protected Status.
Trump dug in his heels on Tuesday, saying that ordinary Americans who can't afford to live behind gates 'are left to pay the price for mass illegal migration: reduced jobs, lower wages, overburdened schools and hospitals, increased crime, and a depleted social safety net.'
'Tolerance for illegal immigration is not compassionate. It is cruel,' he said. 'One in three women is sexually assaulted on the long journey north. Smugglers use migrant children as human pawns to exploit our laws and gain access to our country.'
'Human traffickers and sex traffickers take advantage of the wide open areas between our ports of entry to smuggle thousands of young girls and women into the United States and to sell them into prostitution and modern-day slavery. Tens of thousands of innocent Americans are killed by lethal drugs that cross our border and flood into our cities -- including meth, heroin, cocaine, and fentanyl.'
Among the night's loudest whoops from Republicans, shouted while Democrats sat on their hands, came when Trump introduced a border agent seated in the first lady's box.
'I will never abolish our heroes from ICE,' he said, as cameras panned across the faces of Democrats who have pledged to eliminate the agency.
The border battle has become a clash of egos enveloping both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, even as Trump called on Tuesday for 'an immigration system that is safe, lawful, modern and secure.'
Trump has stormed out of a White House meeting. Pelosi, who sat stone-faced after the president steamrolled past her Tuesday without an introduction, has pledged to give him 'not a dollar' for his wall project.
And Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer blasted the president in a pre-buttal, saying the nation is in the doldrums and Trump's calls for comity are unserious as long as he demands walling off Mexico from the U.S.
'Perhaps even more empty than his policy promises are President Trump's calls for unity each year. ... In the past he's called for unity and he's forgotten about it by the next morning,' he said Tuesday.
'Every year, the president wakes up and discovers that the desire for bipartisanship and unity is ephemeral. He doesn't really feel it. He's told he's supposed to say it at the State of the Union, and then it's gone,' Schumer told reporters.
During a lunchtime meeting with television anchors at the White House, an annual tradition, Trump dismissed Schumer as a 'nasty son of a b***h.' 
Special guest of President Timothy Matson, survivor of the Tree of Life synagogue shooting, was met with applause from the audience 
Judah Samet, a member of the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, waves as he is recognized by Trump while the crowd sings him 'Happy Birthday 
Trump condemned on socialism during his address, saying America will never be a socialist nation 
Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump, Lara Trump, Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr., and Tiffany Trump applaud their father and father-in-law in a standing ovation 
Associate Justice Elena Kagan erupted in laughter with Justice John Roberts and Neigh Gorsuch ahead of the speech 
Members of the cabinet from left: Kirstjen Nielsen, Elaine Chao, Ben Carson, Alex Azar, Alex Acosta, Wilbur Ross, Sonny Perdue, Steven Mnuchin and Mike Pompeo 
Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez minced no words after the president's speech, saying in a brief statement that 'Donald Trump's words tonight were hollow. His calls for unity were undermined by the most divisive agenda in modern history. His vague platitudes were punctured by lies, fearmongering, and broken promises.'
'Separating families does not unify our nation. Taking away people's health care does not unify us. Blocking access to the ballot box does not unify us. Shutting down the government does not unify us. Building walls does not unify us,' Perez said.
Republican senators flooded reporters' in-boxes with glowing tributes to Trump.
'Congress ought to act on his plan, especially his urgent call to solve the border crisis, which still allows a rapid flow of drugs and illegal aliens into our country,' said Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton.
'A physical barrier — which Democrats have supported in the past — remains an obvious, common-sense part of border security. And Congress should respond to his call to ban late-term abortions, a reform strongly supported by the American people.'
Sen. Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, blasted the president for 'partisan fear-mongering and one-sided demands' that he said could lead to the second government shutdown in two months.
'It's deeply disappointing to the hundreds of thousands of federal workers and contractors across the Commonwealth and the country who are once again bracing for the worst,' said Warner.
Peggy Noonan, a Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist who wrote speeches for President Ronald Reagan pronounced Tuesday a success.
'This has been a deeply adept speech in terms of policy,' she wrote on Twitter. 'He cut to the muscle on legal and illegal immigration, on abortion and infanticide, on foreign wars. His vow on socialism will be remembered. Great heroes in the balcony.'
Kellyanne Conway, counselor to President Trump, quoted Noonan's tweet with a quarter of fire emojis.
Noonan also pronounced Ocasio-Cortez 'not spirited, warm and original as usual but sullen, teenaged and at a loss.'
Former Georgia gubernatorial nominee Stacey Abrams delivered the Democrats' response after Trump left the House chamber – preceded by a torrent of Democrats eager to leave before he did.
Abrams, a potential U.S. Senate candidate, berated the president in Atlanta in front of a small audience.
'The shutdown was a stunt engineered by the President of the United States, one that defied every tenet of fairness and abandoned not just our people – but our values,' she said.
'Even as I am very disappointed by the president's approach to our problems, I still don't want him to fail,' she said, before pulling out a rhetorical shiv: 'But we need him to tell the truth.'
Former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams delivered the Democratic response to the president immediately following the State of the Union address 
Pelosi led a large contingent of Democratic congresswomen in wearing all-white outfits to mark the success of American suffragettes in securing the right to vote a century ago.
On the mostly male Republican side of the House chamber, dark suits abounded.
For the second year in a row, first lady Melania Trump arrived on her own, riding to the Capitol ahead of the president in order to greet her guests.
Melania occupied the traditional gallery box. The president's first applause came when he mentioned her in the first line of his speech.
The president's Cabinet sat in the House chamber, including five temporary cabinet secretaries serving in an 'acting' capacity.
Energy Secretary Rick Perry was Tuesday night's 'designated survivor,' the Cabinet member chosen to spend the evening far away from the Capitol as a hedge against losing the entire presidential line of succession in the event of a catastrophe.
Most of the Supreme Court attended, but Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg did not. She hasn't attended either of Trump's other speeches to Joint Sessions of Congress.
Ginsburg is still recovering from cancer surgery. She made her first post-operative public appearance Monday night at a concert of classical music written about her.
In attendance were a group of senators who want Trump's job. Democrats Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren watched and largely sat still.
At 82 minutes, Trump's address was the longest speech to a Joint Session of Congress since the Bill Clinton presidency. His 2018 speech was two minutes shorter.
The White House had hinted at a far shorter address, releasing a schedule Monday night that had the president leaving the U.S. Capitol just 45 minutes after he was to begin speaking.  
FULL TEXT OF PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS 2019
 Remarks as prepared for delivery
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and my fellow Americans: We meet tonight at a moment of unlimited potential. 
As we begin a new Congress, I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. 
Millions of our fellow citizens are watching us now, gathered in this great chamber, hoping that we will govern not as two parties but as one Nation. 
The agenda I will lay out this evening is not a Republican agenda or a Democrat agenda. It is the agenda of the American people. 
Many of us campaigned on the same core promises: to defend American jobs and demand fair trade for American workers; to rebuild and revitalize our Nation's infrastructure; to reduce the price of healthcare and prescription drugs; to create an immigration system that is safe, lawful, modern and secure; and to pursue a foreign policy that puts America's interests first. 
There is a new opportunity in American politics, if only we have the courage to seize it. Victory is not winning for our party. Victory is winning for our country. 
This year, America will recognize two important anniversaries that show us the majesty of America's mission, and the power of American pride.
In June, we mark 75 years since the start of what General Dwight D. Eisenhower called the Great Crusade - the Allied liberation of Europe in World War II. 
On D-Day, June 6, 1944, 15,000 young American men jumped from the sky, and 60,000 more stormed in from the sea, to save our civilization from tyranny. 
Here with us tonight are three of those heroes: Private First Class Joseph Reilly, Staff Sergeant Irving Locker, and Sergeant Herman Zeitchik. Gentlemen, we salute you. 
In 2019, we also celebrate 50 years since brave young pilots flew a quarter of a million miles through space to plant the American flag on the face of the moon. 
Half a century later, we are joined by one of the Apollo 11 astronauts who planted that flag: Buzz Aldrin. This year, American astronauts will go back to space on American rockets. 
In the 20th century, America saved freedom, transformed science, and redefined the middle class standard of living for the entire world to see. 
Now, we must step boldly and bravely into the next chapter of this great American adventure, and we must create a new standard of living for the 21st century. 
An amazing quality of life for all of our citizens is within our reach. We can make our communities safer, our families stronger, our culture richer, our faith deeper, and our middle class bigger and more prosperous than ever before. 
But we must reject the politics of revenge, resistance, and retribution - and embrace the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise, and the common good.
Together, we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions, and unlock the extraordinary promise of America's future. 
The decision is ours to make. We must choose between greatness or gridlock, results or resistance, vision or vengeance, incredible progress or pointless destruction. 
Tonight, I ask you to choose greatness. 
Over the last 2 years, my Administration has moved with urgency and historic speed to confront problems neglected by leaders of both parties over many decades.
In just over 2 years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom - a boom that has rarely been seen before. 
We have created 5.3 million new jobs and importantly added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs - something which almost everyone said was impossible to do, but the fact is, we are just getting started. 
Wages are rising at the fastest pace in decades, and growing for blue collar workers, who I promised to fight for, faster than anyone else. 
Nearly 5 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps. The United States economy is growing almost twice as fast today as when I took office, and we are considered far and away the hottest economy anywhere in the world. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in half a century. 
African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Unemployment for Americans with disabilities has also reached an all-time low. More people are working now than at any time in our history - 157 million. 
We passed a massive tax cut for working families and doubled the child tax credit. We virtually ended the estate, or death, tax on small businesses, ranches, and family farms. 
We eliminated the very unpopular Obamacare individual mandate penalty - and to give critically ill patients access to life-saving cures, we passed right to try. 
My Administration has cut more regulations in a short time than any other administration during its entire tenure. Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers thanks to historic reductions in taxes and regulations. We have unleashed a revolution in American energy - the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. 
And now, for the first time in 65 years, we are a net exporter of energy. 
After 24 months of rapid progress, our economy is the envy of the world, our military is the most powerful on earth, and America is winning each and every day. 
Members of Congress: the State of our Union is strong. Our country is vibrant and our economy is thriving like never before. 
On Friday, it was announced that we added another 304,000 jobs last month alone - almost double what was expected. 
An economic miracle is taking place in the United States - and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics, or ridiculous partisan investigations. 
If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn't work that way! 
We must be united at home to defeat our adversaries abroad. 
This new era of cooperation can start with finally confirming the more than 300 highly qualified nominees who are still stuck in the Senate – some after years of waiting. 
The Senate has failed to act on these nominations, which is unfair to the nominees and to our country. Now is the time for bipartisan action. 
Believe it or not, we have already proven that it is possible. In the last Congress, both parties came together to pass unprecedented legislation to confront the opioid crisis, a sweeping new Farm Bill, historic VA reforms, and after four decades of rejection, we passed VA Accountability so we can finally terminate those who mistreat our wonderful veterans.
 And just weeks ago, both parties united for groundbreaking criminal justice reform. Last year, I heard through friends the story of Alice Johnson. I was deeply moved. 
In 1997, Alice was sentenced to life in prison as a first-time non-violent drug offender. Over the next two decades, she became a prison minister, inspiring others to choose a better path. 
She had a big impact on that prison population - and far beyond. Alice's story underscores the disparities and unfairness that can exist in criminal sentencing  and the need to remedy this injustice. 
She served almost 22 years and had expected to be in prison for the rest of her life. In June, I commuted Alice's sentence - and she is here with us tonight. 
Alice, thank you for reminding us that we always have the power to shape our own destiny. When I saw Alice's beautiful family greet her at the prison gates, hugging and kissing and crying and laughing, I knew I did the right thing. 
Inspired by stories like Alice's, my Administration worked closely with members of both parties to sign the First Step Act into law. 
This legislation reformed sentencing laws that have wrongly and disproportionately harmed the African-American community. 
The First Step Act gives non-violent offenders the chance to re-enter society as productive, law-abiding citizens. 
Now, States across the country are following our lead. America is a Nation that believes in redemption.
We are also joined tonight by Matthew Charles from Tennessee. In 1996, at age 30, Matthew was sentenced to 35 years for selling drugs and related offenses. 
Over the next two decades, he completed more than 30 Bible studies, became a law clerk, and mentored fellow inmates. Now, Matthew is the very first person to be released from prison under the First Step Act. Matthew, on behalf of all Americans: welcome home. 
As we have seen, when we are united, we can make astonishing strides for our country. Now, Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis. 
The Congress has 10 days left to pass a bill that will fund our Government, protect our homeland, and secure our southern border. 
Now is the time for the Congress to show the world that America is committed to ending illegal immigration and putting the ruthless coyotes, cartels, drug dealers, and human traffickers out of business. 
As we speak, large, organized caravans are on the march to the United States. We have just heard that Mexican cities, in order to remove the illegal immigrants from their communities, are getting trucks and buses to bring them up to our country in areas where there is little border protection. 
I have ordered another 3,750 troops to our southern border to prepare for the tremendous onslaught.
This is a moral issue. The lawless state of our southern border is a threat to the safety, security, and financial well‑being of all Americans. 
We have a moral duty to create an immigration system that protects the lives and jobs of our citizens. This includes our obligation to the millions of immigrants living here today, who followed the rules and respected our laws. 
Legal immigrants enrich our Nation and strengthen our society in countless ways. I want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally. 
Tonight, I am asking you to defend our very dangerous southern border out of love and devotion to our fellow citizens and to our country. 
No issue better illustrates the divide between America's working class and America's political class than illegal immigration. 
Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards. 
Meanwhile, working class Americans are left to pay the price for mass illegal migration - reduced jobs, lower wages, overburdened schools and hospitals, increased crime, and a depleted social safety net. Tolerance for illegal immigration is not compassionate - it is cruel.
One in three women is sexually assaulted on the long journey north. Smugglers use migrant children as human pawns to exploit our laws and gain access to our country. 
Human traffickers and sex traffickers take advantage of the wide open areas between our ports of entry to smuggle thousands of young girls and women into the United States and to sell them into prostitution and modern-day slavery. 
Tens of thousands of innocent Americans are killed by lethal drugs that cross our border and flood into our cities - including meth, heroin, cocaine, and fentanyl. 
The savage gang, MS-13, now operates in 20 different American states, and they almost all come through our southern border. 
Just yesterday, an MS-13 gang member was taken into custody for a fatal shooting on a subway platform in New York City.
We are removing these gang members by the thousands, but until we secure our border they're going to keep streaming back in. 
Year after year, countless Americans are murdered by criminal illegal aliens. I've gotten to know many wonderful Angel Moms, Dads, and families – no one should ever have to suffer the horrible heartache they have endured. 
Here tonight is Debra Bissell. Just three weeks ago, Debra's parents, Gerald and Sharon, were burglarized and shot to death in their Reno, Nevada, home by an illegal alien. 
They were in their eighties and are survived by four children, 11 grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren. Also here tonight are Gerald and Sharon's granddaughter, Heather, and great‑granddaughter, Madison. 
To Debra, Heather, Madison, please stand: few can understand your pain. But I will never forget, and I will fight for the memory of Gerald and Sharon, that it should never happen again. 
Not one more American life should be lost because our Nation failed to control its very dangerous border. In the last 2 years, our brave ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 killings. 
We are joined tonight by one of those law enforcement heroes: ICE Special Agent Elvin Hernandez. When Elvin was a boy, he and his family legally immigrated to the United States from the Dominican Republic. At the age of eight, Elvin told his dad he wanted to become a Special Agent. 
Today, he leads investigations into the scourge of international sex trafficking. Elvin says: 'If I can make sure these young girls get their justice, I've done my job.' 
Thanks to his work and that of his colleagues, more than 300 women and girls have been rescued from horror and more than 1,500 sadistic traffickers have been put behind bars in the last year. 
Special Agent Hernandez, please stand: We will always support the brave men and women of Law Enforcement - and I pledge to you tonight that we will never abolish our heroes from ICE.
My Administration has sent to the Congress a commonsense proposal to end the crisis on our southern border. 
It includes humanitarian assistance, more law enforcement, drug detection at our ports, closing loopholes that enable child smuggling, and plans for a new physical barrier, or wall, to secure the vast areas between our ports of entry. 
In the past, most of the people in this room voted for a wall - but the proper wall never got built. I'll get it built. 
This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier - not just a simple concrete wall. It will be deployed in the areas identified by border agents as having the greatest need, and as these agents will tell you, where walls go up, illegal crossings go way down. 
San Diego used to have the most illegal border crossings in the country. In response, and at the request of San Diego residents and political leaders, a strong security wall was put in place. This powerful barrier almost completely ended illegal crossings.
The border city of El Paso, Texas, used to have extremely high rates of violent crime - one of the highest in the country, and considered one of our Nation's most dangerous cities. 
Now, with a powerful barrier in place, El Paso is one of our safest cities. Simply put, walls work and walls save lives. 
So let's work together, compromise, and reach a deal that will truly make America safe. As we work to defend our people's safety, we must also ensure our economic resurgence continues at a rapid pace. 
No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58 percent of the new jobs created in the last year. 
All Americans can be proud that we have more women in the workforce than ever before - and exactly one century after the Congress passed the Constitutional amendment giving women the right to vote, we also have more women serving in the Congress than ever before. 
As part of our commitment to improving opportunity for women everywhere, this Thursday we are launching the first ever Government-wide initiative focused on economic empowerment for women in developing countries. 
To build on our incredible economic success, one priority is paramount - reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. 
We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end. 
Therefore, we recently imposed tariffs on $250 billion of Chinese goods - and now our Treasury is receiving billions of dollars a month from a country that never gave us a dime. 
But I don't blame China for taking advantage of us - I blame our leaders and representatives for allowing this travesty to happen. I have great respect for President Xi, and we are now working on a new trade deal with China. 
But it must include real, structural change to end unfair trade practices, reduce our chronic trade deficit, and protect American jobs. 
Another historic trade blunder was the catastrophe known as NAFTA. I have met the men and women of Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, New Hampshire, and many other States whose dreams were shattered by NAFTA. 
For years, politicians promised them they would negotiate for a better deal. But no one ever tried - until now. 
Our new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement - or USMCA - will replace NAFTA and deliver for American workers: bringing back our manufacturing jobs, expanding American agriculture, protecting intellectual property, and ensuring that more cars are proudly stamped with four beautiful words: made in the USA. 
Tonight, I am also asking you to pass the United States Reciprocal Trade Act, so that if another country places an unfair tariff on an American product, we can charge them the exact same tariff on the same product that they sell to us. 
Both parties should be able to unite for a great rebuilding of America's crumbling infrastructure. I know that the Congress is eager to pass an infrastructure bill - and I am eager to work with you on legislation to deliver new and important infrastructure investment, including investments in the cutting edge industries of the future. 
This is not an option. This is a necessity. 
The next major priority for me, and for all of us, should be to lower the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs - and to protect patients with pre-existing conditions. 
Already, as a result of my Administration's efforts, in 2018 drug prices experienced their single largest decline in 46 years. But we must do more. 
It is unacceptable that Americans pay vastly more than people in other countries for the exact same drugs, often made in the exact same place.
This is wrong, unfair, and together we can stop it. I am asking the Congress to pass legislation that finally takes on the problem of global freeloading and delivers fairness and price transparency for American patients. 
We should also require drug companies, insurance companies, and hospitals to disclose real prices to foster competition and bring costs down. 
No force in history has done more to advance the human condition than American freedom. In recent years we have made remarkable progress in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Scientific breakthroughs have brought a once-distant dream within reach. 
My budget will ask Democrats and Republicans to make the needed commitment to eliminate the HIV epidemic in the United States within 10 years. Together, we will defeat AIDS in America. 
Tonight, I am also asking you to join me in another fight that all Americans can get behind: the fight against childhood cancer. 
Joining Melania in the gallery this evening is a very brave 10-year-old girl, Grace Eline. Every birthday since she was 4, Grace asked her friends to donate to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. 
She did not know that one day she might be a patient herself. Last year, Grace was diagnosed with brain cancer. 
Immediately, she began radiation treatment. At the same time, she rallied her community and raised more than $40,000 for the fight against cancer. 
When Grace completed treatment last fall, her doctors and nurses cheered with tears in their eyes as she hung up a poster that read: 'Last Day of Chemo.' 
Grace - you are an inspiration to us all. 
Many childhood cancers have not seen new therapies in decades. My budget will ask the Congress for $500 million over the next 10 years to fund this critical life-saving research.
To help support working parents, the time has come to pass school choice for America's children. I am also proud to be the first President to include in my budget a plan for nationwide paid family leave - so that every new parent has the chance to bond with their newborn child.
There could be no greater contrast to the beautiful image of a mother holding her infant child than the chilling displays our Nation saw in recent days.
Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments before birth. 
These are living, feeling, beautiful babies who will never get the chance to share their love and dreams with the world. 
And then, we had the case of the Governor of Virginia where he basically stated he would execute a baby after birth. To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother's womb. 
Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life. And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: all children - born and unborn - are made in the holy image of God. 
The final part of my agenda is to protect America's National Security. Over the last 2 years, we have begun to fully rebuild the United States Military - with $700 billion last year and $716 billion this year. We are also getting other nations to pay their fair share. 
For years, the United States was being treated very unfairly by NATO - but now we have secured a $100 billion increase in defense spending from NATO allies. As part of our military build-up, the United States is developing a state-of-the-art Missile Defense System. 
Under my Administration, we will never apologize for advancing America's interests. For example, decades ago the United States entered into a treaty with Russia in which we agreed to limit and reduce our missile capabilities. 
While we followed the agreement to the letter, Russia repeatedly violated its terms. That is why I announced that the United States is officially withdrawing from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, or INF Treaty. 
Perhaps we can negotiate a different agreement, adding China and others, or perhaps we can't - in which case, we will outspend and out-innovate all others by far. 
As part of a bold new diplomacy, we continue our historic push for peace on the Korean Peninsula. 
Our hostages have come home, nuclear testing has stopped, and there has not been a missile launch in 15 months. If I had not been elected President of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea with potentially millions of people killed. 
Much work remains to be done, but my relationship with Kim Jong Un is a good one. And Chairman Kim and I will meet again on February 27 and 28 in Vietnam. 
Two weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela, and its new interim President, Juan Guaido. 
We stand with the Venezuelan people in their noble quest for freedom - and we condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair. 
Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence - not government coercion, domination, and control. 
We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country. 
One of the most complex set of challenges we face is in the Middle East. Our approach is based on principled realism - not discredited theories that have failed for decades to yield progress. 
For this reason, my Administration recognized the true capital of Israel - and proudly opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. 
Our brave troops have now been fighting in the Middle East for almost 19 years. In Afghanistan and Iraq, nearly 7,000 American heroes have given their lives. More than 52,000 Americans have been badly wounded. We have spent more than $7 trillion in the Middle East. 
As a candidate for President, I pledged a new approach. Great nations do not fight endless wars. When I took office, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. Today, we have liberated virtually all of that territory from the grip of these bloodthirsty killers. 
Now, as we work with our allies to destroy the remnants of ISIS, it is time to give our brave warriors in Syria a warm welcome home. 
I have also accelerated our negotiations to reach a political settlement in Afghanistan. Our troops have fought with unmatched valor - and thanks to their bravery, we are now able to pursue a political solution to this long and bloody conflict.
In Afghanistan, my administration is holding constructive talks with a number of Afghan groups, including the Taliban. 
As we make progress in these negotiations, we will be able to reduce our troop presence and focus on counter-terrorism. We do not know whether we will achieve an agreement - but we do know that after two decades of war, the hour has come to at least try for peace. 
Above all, friend and foe alike must never doubt this Nation's power and will to defend our people. Eighteen years ago, terrorists attacked the USS Cole - and last month American forces killed one of the leaders of the attack. 
We are honored to be joined tonight by Tom Wibberley, whose son, Navy Seaman Craig Wibberley, was one of the 17 sailors we tragically lost. 
Tom: we vow to always remember the heroes of the USS Cole. My Administration has acted decisively to confront the world's leading state sponsor of terror: the radical regime in Iran. 
To ensure this corrupt dictatorship never acquires nuclear weapons, I withdrew the United States from the disastrous Iran nuclear deal. 
And last fall, we put in place the toughest sanctions ever imposed on a country. We will not avert our eyes from a regime that chants death to America and threatens genocide against the Jewish people. 
We must never ignore the vile poison of anti-Semitism, or those who spread its venomous creed. With one voice, we must confront this hatred anywhere and everywhere it occurs. 
Just months ago, 11 Jewish-Americans were viciously murdered in an anti-semitic attack on the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. 
SWAT Officer Timothy Matson raced into the gunfire and was shot seven times chasing down the killer. Timothy has just had his 12th surgery - but he made the trip to be here with us tonight. Officer Matson: we are forever grateful for your courage in the face of evil. 
Tonight, we are also joined by Pittsburgh survivor Judah Samet. He arrived at the synagogue as the massacre began. But not only did Judah narrowly escape death last fall - more than seven decades ago, he narrowly survived the Nazi concentration camps. 
Today is Judah's 81st birthday. Judah says he can still remember the exact moment, nearly 75 years ago, after 10 months in a concentration camp, when he and his family were put on a train, and told they were going to another camp. 
Suddenly the train screeched to a halt. A soldier appeared. Judah's family braced for the worst. Then, his father cried out with joy: 'It's the Americans.' 
A second Holocaust survivor who is here tonight, Joshua Kaufman, was a prisoner at Dachau Concentration Camp. He remembers watching through a hole in the wall of a cattle car as American soldiers rolled in with tanks.
'To me,' Joshua recalls, 'the American soldiers were proof that God exists, and they came down from the sky.' 
I began this evening by honoring three soldiers who fought on D-Day in the Second World War. One of them was Herman Zeitchik. But there is more to Herman's story. A year after he stormed the beaches of Normandy, Herman was one of those American soldiers who helped liberate Dachau. 
He was one of the Americans who helped rescue Joshua from that hell on earth. Almost 75 years later, Herman and Joshua are both together in the gallery tonight - seated side-by-side, here in the home of American freedom. 
Herman and Joshua: your presence this evening honors and uplifts our entire Nation. 
When American soldiers set out beneath the dark skies over the English Channel in the early hours of D-Day, 1944, they were just young men of 18 and 19, hurtling on fragile landing craft toward the most momentous battle in the history of war. 
They did not know if they would survive the hour. They did not know if they would grow old. But they knew that America had to prevail. Their cause was this Nation, and generations yet unborn. Why did they do it? They did it for America - they did it for us. 
Everything that has come since - our triumph over communism, our giant leaps of science and discovery, our unrivaled progress toward equality and justice - all of it is possible thanks to the blood and tears and courage and vision of the Americans who came before. 
Think of this Capitol - think of this very chamber, where lawmakers before you voted to end slavery, to build the railroads and the highways, to defeat fascism, to secure civil rights, to face down an evil empire. 
Here tonight, we have legislators from across this magnificent republic. You have come from the rocky shores of Maine and the volcanic peaks of Hawaii; from the snowy woods of Wisconsin and the red deserts of Arizona; from the green farms of Kentucky and the golden beaches of California. 
Together, we represent the most extraordinary Nation in all of history. What will we do with this moment? How will we be remembered?
I ask the men and women of this Congress: Look at the opportunities before us! Our most thrilling achievements are still ahead. Our most exciting journeys still await. Our biggest victories are still to come. We have not yet begun to dream. 
We must choose whether we are defined by our differences - or whether we dare to transcend them. 
We must choose whether we will squander our inheritance - or whether we will proudly declare that we are Americans. We do the incredible. We defy the impossible. We conquer the unknown. 
This is the time to re-ignite the American imagination. This is the time to search for the tallest summit, and set our sights on the brightest star. 
This is the time to rekindle the bonds of love and loyalty and memory that link us together as citizens, as neighbors, as patriots. This is our future - our fate - and our choice to make. 
I am asking you to choose greatness. No matter the trials we face, no matter the challenges to come, we must go forward together.
We must keep America first in our hearts. We must keep freedom alive in our souls. 
And we must always keep faith in America's destiny - that one Nation, under God, must be the hope and the promise and the light and the glory among all the nations of the world! 
Thank you. God Bless You, God Bless America, and good night! 
more videos
Share or comment on this article:
Trump uses State of the Union to call for bipartisan unity
Dems don't realize how bad they look by not applau...
by tammy 4169
More top stories
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
