Creative, Awesome & Unique
OverUX is multipurpose Mobile HTML template for Mobile Applications, Micro sites and Application, Phonegap Applications, Admin applications etc. Creative and Unique pages with lots of components which delivers great User Experience. Bootstrap theme. Pure HTML helps you to create smooth integration support with other technology. 6+ color schemes with 2x color combination.
Creative, Awesome & Unique
GoTRI is multipurpose HTML template for Business Applications, Enterprise Application, Web Dashboard Applications, Admin applications etc. Creative and Unique pages with hundreds of components which delivers great User Experience. Bootstrap theme. Pure HTML helps you to create smooth integration support with other technology. 18+ color schemes with 3x color combination.
All in one for Mobile
Mobile UX is specially designed for mobile apps and mobile micro site. We have also implemented design for Framework 7 and also with Bootstrap framework. Framework 7 is specially designed for mobile apps with great components and library. Bootstrap is mobile first HTML framework. Both are beautiful and unique in own its way.
Bunch of Component
Template has very large number of unique components and are flexible with 12 column grid system. Also 20+ different colors CSS files so you can easily change color scheme as per your brand color or choices.
One template for all your need
Template is creatively crafted with emotion and flexibility with 16 column grid system. Different components along with the different CSS stylesheet which provides customization to main front end and you can use for different platform & project. Bootstrap theme. SCSS files so you can easily change color scheme as per your brand color or choices.
for Admin Panels, Dashboards and Mobile Apps
We have created large number of templates with widget and component with different pages
You can customize and create your own template page with our library. We  are serving uniqueness, creativity and flexibility.
HTML CSS
Bootstrap Template Design’s Templates HTML, CSS and js templates. We have covered major HTML elements & customized widget elements with each different template. We’ll also expand it & always HTML5 and major use of CSS3 we targeted and think of for future releases. Best Bootstrap theme.
Responsive Web
The framework we have used is bootstrap latest template by template release and new bootstrap version uses flex-box properties and gives much smooth responsive utilities. The framework itself comes with responsive adjust into major devices small to large.
Browser Support
As the latest technology and framework targeted it comes with Major all latest versions of browser Chrome, Safari, Firefox, IE 10+, Edge and opera. We also consider devices layout will be responsive and gives new touch.
Get Freebies
