Trump is Creating Real Opportunities for African Americans
 
Editor: Johnathan Meyers | Tactical Investor
One of the main reasons we cover such a broad range of topics is because the masses are being systematically brainwashed to see what they are being directed to see. You can only solve the problem if you understand the problem; if you do not, you will either never solve it or continue trending on the path of stupidity forever. To become a good investor, you need to see the full picture and not the snippets that the mass media conveniently and almost gleefully is willing to provide.  Mass psychology states that it is imperative to acknowledge the forest while looking at the tree. In other words, emotions drive the markets, and you need to focus on what emotions Mass Media is trying to stir up to spot the next significant trend. With that in mind, we think you might find the following article to of interest:
Many stocks are trending upwards while key technical indicators move from the overbought to the oversold ranges. If this took place on the daily charts it could be ignored, but, these developments are taking place in the slow-moving monthly charts, and it suggests that a new trend might be about to take hold. Then you have stocks that trend endlessly in the overbought ranges with no sign of letting up, but the stock continues to trend higher and higher. If this trend takes hold, then a plethora of technical analysts will face the ultimate challenge: “Adapt or die”.  Stock market Insanity Trend is Gathering Momentum
Responding to charges of racism by a former Trump administration aide, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders vastly overstated President Trump’s record on black job creation.
Sanders claimed Trump has created three times as many jobs for black people as the Obama administration did in eight years.
According to the official count from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, however, most black employment gains occurred during the Obama administration.
Jahi Chikwendiu | The Washington Post | Getty Images
During a weeklong job training program, Keith Mitchell, Jr., L, and Isaiah Hall, 21, excitedly look over the class lists of IT certification programs at Metropolitan Community College in North Omaha on Wednesday, May 2, 2018, in Omaha, NE. The two of them – one a resident of a homeless shelter and the other a young man living with his great grandmother, would bond over common interests during the week.
Responding to charges of racism by former Trump administration aide Omarosa Manigault Newman, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders vastly overstated President Donald Trump’s record on job creation for black Americans.
“This president since he took office created 700,000 new jobs for African-Americans,” Sanders told reporters Tuesday. “After eight years of President Obama in office, he only created 195,000 jobs for African-Americans. President Trump in his first year and a half has already tripled what President Obama did in eight years.” Full Story
Other Articles of Interest
