February 8, 2019 Martin
President Donald Trump’s campaign manager just offered a major update into the 2020 election.
Brad Parscale, who headed data operations for Trump’s 2016 campaign and is the president’s 2020 campaign manager, took to Twitter on Thursday to share big news on some of the news that they have already accomplished.
“By Election Day 2020 we will have spent nearly three years building the most powerful campaign ever seen in politics. We will have the ability to contact directly with nearly every @realDonaldTrump voter in some method,” Parscale wrote.
By Election Day 2020 we will have spent nearly three years building the most powerful campaign ever seen in politics. We will have the ability to contact directly with nearly every @realDonaldTrump voter in some method. https://t.co/mhheiNFLcb
The piece Pascale linked to in his tweet was an op-ed in The Hill from Tara McGowan, who is the founder and CEO of ACRONYM, a progressive organization.
McGowan is a liberal who has run Democratic communications and media programs that focus on reaching and mobilizing voters online.
In her piece, she writes that what Trump’s team has built and accomplished is beyond anything she has ever seen before.
What Trump has been able to build for his reelection campaign terrifies me. It has also made me a firm believer that unless Democrats recognize our own strategic shortcomings and tactical disadvantages, we may never win back the White House or build long-term progressive power.
We currently live in a time of political, social and technological disruption. The last time Democrats had a broad bench of candidates running for president, Twitter didn’t exist and the iPhone was one year old. Since then, the explosion of social media and mobile apps have transformed how we live our lives and how political elections are won or lost. Donald Trump’s campaign has taken advantage of these changes to build a highly strategic reelection campaign that any potential 2020 candidate should pay attention to.
McGowan goes on to say that Parscale being an expert “digital guy” terrifies her, and that he has given Trump a “modern playbook to win.”
She goes on commend Parscale and the Trump campaign for bringing in gigantic digital investments compared to other 2020 Democratic candidates.
For months (even before the 2018 midterm elections), Donald Trump’s campaign has consistently been a top political spender on Facebook focused on acquiring voter data and building potential supporter lists. Over the past few weeks, for example, Trump’s campaign spent a combined $778,000 on Facebook ads alone. That’s compared to $194,000 that Kamala Harris spent on Facebook the week she launched her presidential campaign and just $99,000 Elizabeth Warren spent over the last three weeks combined.
McGowan rounds out her piece with a warning for Democrats and that if they do not make serious attempts to close the gap, the Trump team could likely cruise to victory in 2020 given the power of the digital machine Parscale has built.
There’s no denying that Democrats are entering the 2020 race at a disadvantage. However there are ways we can make up for this lost ground if we make a conscious effort to do so.
As much as it pains me to say it — Democrats need to take a page out of Donald Trump’s playbook and beat him at his own game. Our democracy and the future of our party depend on it.
