US withdrawal from Syria to be done in 'prudent' way - Trump
2019-01-08 09:12
US President Donald Trump (File) (Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Washington – President Donald Trump on Monday sought to end fears of an abrupt US pullout from Syria, saying the fight against the Islamic State (ISIS) group is not over and that withdrawal would be done in a "prudent" manner.
"We will be leaving at a proper pace while at the same time continuing to fight ISIS and doing all else that is prudent and necessary!" Trump tweeted.
The president has come under withering pressure both at home and in allied capitals after previous statements indicating that he considered the ISIS group vanquished and that he wanted US troops out of Syria imminently.
Trump's new statement follows a trip by his national security adviser John Bolton to Israel in which he told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday that withdrawal would not happen before "ISIS is defeated and not able to revive itself".
In a call, Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron spoke of "the commitment of the United States and France to the destruction of ISIS as well as plans for a strong, deliberate, and coordinated withdrawal of US troops from Syria," the White House said.
"They reiterated that any further use of chemical weapons in Syria must not be tolerated."
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he had spoken with French officials. "We'll make sure we address the concerns that they have. Everyone understands what the United States is doing," he told reporters as he headed on a Middle East visit.
Diplomatic storm
The reassurances followed a diplomatic storm caused by Trump's surprise announcement in December that appeared to signal a rapid withdrawal from Syria, where US special forces play an important role in supporting local forces fighting ISIS.
"We've won against ISIS," he said at the time. "We've beaten them and we've beaten them badly. We've taken back the land. And now it's time for our troops to come back home."
The initial pullout promise also sparked outspoken opposition from within Trump's Republican party and the resignation of respected defence secretary James Mattis.
In Monday's statement, Trump complained that media coverage had skewed his original words, saying that his latest position on Syria was "no different from my original statements".
The Failing New York Times has knowingly written a very inaccurate story on my intentions on Syria. No different from my original statements, we will be leaving at a proper pace while at the same time continuing to fight ISIS and doing all else that is prudent and necessary!.....
Currently, about 2 000 US forces are in Syria, which is in the grips of a complex civil war. Most of the US soldiers are there to train local forces fighting the hardcore-Islamist ISIS.
"We will continue to work with the coalition and regional partners toward an enduring defeat of ISIS," Commander Sean Robertson, a Pentagon spokesperson, told AFP.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24 . Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
We reserve editorial discretion to decide what will be published.
Inside News24
 
Top Lifestyle
 
E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want
News24 on Android Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.
 
© 2019 24.com. All rights reserved.
 
Create Profile
Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
Please provide a username for your profile page:
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.
Hello 
Edit your avatar:
* The image you selected could not be uploaded.
Tell us a bit about yourself:
 
Your Location
Hi News addict,
Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
 
