INTERVIEW:
A Candid Conversation with Sharon Kim, Christian Instagrammer and Creator of CanPlan Read More →
 08 Feb 2019 
 Posted by Corey Barnett
President Donald Trump at last year’s National Prayer Breakfast. Public Domain
President Donald Trump’s speech at National Prayer Breakfast covered several key issues
The National Prayer Breakfast, or the Presidential Prayer Breakfast, started in 1953, with late President Dwight D. Eisenhower being the first President to attend. Since the beginning of this event, both politicians and religious members used it as a platform to talk about faith in politics.
However, the breakfast has come under scrutiny after officials arrested Russian national Maria Butina last year. They claimed she was trying to use the occasion to influence politics in the country. Some of the leaders who are in charge of organizing the event, Doug Burleigh and James Lankford, believe it is essential to scrutinize the people attending the event. According to them, the National Prayer Breakfast is motivated by spirituality, but not all the guests have the same motivation.
President Donald Trump received the support of religious conservatives and evangelicals in 2016 as part of his presidential election campaign. During this year’s National Prayer Breakfast, the leader of the United States made it clear he still values his relationship with these groups deeply.
He told the audience of evangelical Christians, political figures, and religious leaders he is never going to disappoint them. He also used the moment to talk about an important issue among conservative Christians – late-term abortion. He continued to show he is against abortion, despite Virginia and New York attempting to ease restrictions on the procedure.
He claimed God is the one responsible for making both unborn and born children. Due to this reason, his stance will always be anti-abortion. After several years, this issue has once again entered national politics, after the decision of Roe v. Wade in 1973.
Trump made it clear he is taking the best efforts to lead the fight against anti-Semitism by appointing Elan Carr as U.S. envoy. He plans on increasing his efforts to safeguard persecuted Jews and Christians.
The President also touched topics his administration wants to address, such as human trafficking and religious persecution taking place outside the country. For example, Christian pastor Andrew Brunson, spent almost two years in a Turkish jail before the Trump administration set him free.
However, it looks like Trump might have slipped up during his speech, as he mentioned the abolition of civil rights as important progress of the nation. As a result, Twitter users were quick to point out the mistake.
The main speech giver at the National Prayer Breakfast was trump, a serial sexual predator accused by 19+ women of sex crimes, serial adulterer who cheated on all of his wives and a crook. Setting that all aside, the Despot praised the “abolition of civil rights” in said speech.
Resources
08 Feb 2019  08 Feb 2019   Posted by Corey Barnett
Trump Speaks at National Prayer Breakfast
Share This
Marketing Permissions
World Religion News will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates and marketing. Please let us know all the ways you would like to hear from us:
Email
Customized online advertising
You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at info@worldreligionnews.com . We will treat your information with respect. Click here for more information about our privacy practices. By clicking below, you agree that we may process your information in accordance with these terms.
We use MailChimp as our marketing automation platform. By clicking below to submit this form, you acknowledge that the information you provide will be transferred to MailChimp for processing in accordance with their Privacy Policy and Terms .
Related Posts
Search for:
Featured Interview
Marketing Permissions
World Religion News will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates and marketing. Please let us know all the ways you would like to hear from us:
Email
Customized online advertising
You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at info@worldreligionnews.com . We will treat your information with respect. Click here for more information about our privacy practices. By clicking below, you agree that we may process your information in accordance with these terms.
We use MailChimp as our marketing automation platform. By clicking below to submit this form, you acknowledge that the information you provide will be transferred to MailChimp for processing in accordance with their Privacy Policy and Terms .
World Religion News
If you’re a publisher and wish to have your content removed, click here .
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Accept Cookie Policy
Cookie Policy
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. You can adjust all of your cookie settings.
Save
Analytics
Enable
Save
