Supported by
With a Trump Ally Taking the Gavel, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Goes Quiet
Image
Senator Jim Risch, the Foreign Relations Committee’s new chairman, said any sparring with President Trump should be in private.CreditCreditErin Schaff for The New York Times
WASHINGTON — Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee used his perch atop the storied Foreign Relations Committee to offer barbed criticisms of the president’s foreign policy, once acidly referring to the White House as an “adult day care center” that would set the nation on a path to World War III.
For two years, the committee served as an arena for senators to air their grievances with President Trump’s isolationist foreign policy, as Mr. Corker strove to take his place among the powerhouses who once wielded the gavel — Henry Clay, Charles Sumner, Henry Cabot Lodge, Arthur H. Vandenberg, J. William Fulbright, Frank Church, Joseph R. Biden Jr., John Kerry and Richard Lugar.
Its new chairman, Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, appears intent on taking the committee in a new direction.
“My repertoire does not include sparring publicly with the president of the United States,” Mr. Risch told the Idaho Press newspaper last month. “For many, many different reasons, I think that’s counterproductive, and you won’t see me doing it.”
He added, “We exchange ideas about how we feel on things, but when we do disagree, we do it face to face, and not on the front page of The New York Times.”
Mr. Risch, a former trial lawyer and current cattle rancher, has taken the gavel of the vaunted committee as dissatisfaction among Senate Republicans with the president’s foreign policy has only mounted.
In December, Senate Republicans publicly broke with the president to approve a resolution withdrawing American support for the Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. This month, they were even more emphatic, voting almost unanimously to express their disapproval of his abrupt withdrawal of troops from Syria and Afghanistan.
House Republicans voted overwhelmingly last month to bar an American exit from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, after The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump had expressed an interest in shattering the alliance.
But none of those issues have merited a hearing before the new Senate Foreign Relations Committee or a sharp word from the new chairman. A spokeswoman for Mr. Risch explained that while he takes seriously the committee’s oversight role, he is confident that he has the president’s ear on matters of foreign policy; he believes he is more effective when he raises his concerns with Mr. Trump privately on concerns where they may differ.
“He’ll be addressing a lot of key issues,” Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio and a committee member, said, expressing confidence in Mr. Risch. Besides, Mr. Portman added, “members are independent actors, and we’re all going to speak up and let our views be known.”
Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware and another committee member, hit on the same point: “I understand that Chairman Risch has a different style and approach perhaps than Chairman Corker did, but I am determined that the committee will be no less effective.”
Some foreign policy experts say even Mr. Corker was derelict in his duty to turn acerbic comments into real oversight or legislation. Under Mr. Risch, even the words might go silent. And that will have real consequences.
Leveraging the committee’s oversight power is “a critical element of getting to the right place,” said Wendy R. Sherman, an under secretary of state and acting deputy secretary of state under President Barack Obama.
“I’m not saying that Senator Risch should be combative with the president, but where there is disagreement, we rely on the U.S. Senate,” Ms. Sherman said. “They can take the long view, and for them to defer to the president on everything really undermines the strength of that committee and the historic role that it’s played.”
Stewart M. Patrick, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and former policy staffer at the State Department under President George W. Bush, said, “It’s not enough simply to make, as Bob Corker did pretty frequently, made-for-TV sound bites expressing alarm or discomfort about U.S. policy unless there’s going to be substantive hearings about the wisdom of those choices.” He added, “The danger with Mr. Risch is that we are going to get neither expressions of alarm when the administration is off track, nor effective oversight.”
Allies of the new chairman describe him as a workhorse, not a showhorse. But on policy, Mr. Trump has a friend at the helm of the Foreign Relations Committee. Mr. Risch has broken with the president on occasion, joining his colleagues to protest Mr. Trump’s appetite for leaving the Atlantic alliance, and taking an aggressive stance on Russia.
But after The Washington Post reported that Mr. Trump disclosed classified information provided by Israel to the Russian foreign minister, Mr. Risch told CNN : “There’s a weasel here and the weasel is not the president of the United States. It’s the traitor who disclosed these facts to The Washington Post.”
While he joined his peers in voting for a bipartisan amendment sponsored by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, which warned the president of the dangers of a “precipitous withdrawal” of troops from Syria and Afghanistan, he took to the Senate floor to chastise news outlets for “badly mischaracterizing” the measure as a rebuke to Mr. Trump. Instead, he said, it commended the president “for all the things he’s been able to do in Syria in getting ISIS contained down to the very small area that remains.”
And he has remained sanguine about the president’s ability to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons, telling PBS NewsHour over the summer that Mr. Trump “should be given credit” for the work he had already accomplished.
“The president is committed to seeing this through, and as such we should all remember that negotiations involve both public and private diplomacy,” Mr. Risch said in a statement. “Sometimes that means there will be public posturing on both sides, but I hope we can all give the president space to continue to move us in the right direction with North Korea.”
Mr. Risch will have his issues, but they are likely to dovetail with President Trump’s. He intends to delve into “the very real threat China poses to U.S. business and interests,” he said in a statement.
And he is likely to join another member of the committee, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, in taking an aggressive stand challenging the regime of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela.
In the House, Democrats will be more than happy to fulfill that oversight mandate, and have already listed a series of investigations that the House Foreign Affairs Committee might oversee, including scrutinizing accusations that Mr. Trump hid details of his meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia from the public and his own staff.
But without a partner in the Senate, that committee’s legislative work can only go so far.
That has Senate Democrats already expressing frustration.
At a time when “our allies are questioning our commitments and our adversaries are relishing the chaos the administration’s policies have borne,” Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the committee’s ranking Democrat, said, it “can be constructive” to suggest alternatives to the administration’s current policies.
“I understand that Senator Risch has said he won’t be taking on the president publicly, but there are times when both on the jurisdiction of your committee and on the issues you truly believe, you can shape the direction of things,” Mr. Menendez added. “It can be constructive" to make your thoughts known.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Shift in Tone for Foreign Relations Panel as Trump Ally Takes the Gavel. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Advertisement
