(AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
By
16977
The Trump administration launched a bizarre threat against one of our closest allies immediately after Trump announced the withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal.
The Trump administration issued a public threat against the German government minutes after announcing that the United States would withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal.
Recently sworn in U.S. ambassador to Germany Richard Grenell made the threat in a tweet posted after Trump’s announcement.
“As @realDonaldTrump said, US sanctions will target critical sectors of Iran’s economy. German companies doing business in Iran should wind down operations immediately,” Grenell wrote.
Germany is, of course, a sovereign nation and has its own policies for contending with Iran. It is also one of our nation’s closest allies.
And this isn’t the first time Trump has attacked Germany. In May 2017, he labeled the Germany people “ very evil ” over trade policies. And during a meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel two months earlier, he wouldn’t even shake her hand .
U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May, French President Emmanuel Macron, and Merkel addressed the issue of Iranian sanctions in a joint statement .
“Iran should continue to receive the sanctions relief it is entitled to whilst it remains in compliance with the terms of the deal,” the leaders wrote.
The decision to withdraw from the deal while Iran has been certified to be in compliance is already isolating America.
And Trump is helping to ensure that by openly ordering the German government around.
The attitude Trump has embraced tells the world that America is not a rational or serious working partner on global issues. And as long as Trump is directing U.S. foreign policy, the decisions will be erratic and lack logic .
Once again during his presidency, America has separated itself from its most loyal and trustworthy allies. America under Trump is pushing for conditions that will likely lead to more war and international conflict .
The postwar alliance that won the Cold War is under full assault from the Trump administration. And Germany has received one of the first blows.
TAGS
FOLLOW US
1,572,318Fans Like
78,901Followers Follow
RECENT POSTS
Shareblue Media is an American media company. We tell real-world stories to give voice to the heroes fighting for American values. We are a rapidly growing community — reaching millions per week across platforms — that is optimistic, honest, and unafraid.
MOST POPULAR
