Donald Trump undergoes annual health check
President Donald Trump had his annual medical exam a year after his doctor advised him to up the exercise and cut the calories.
AP
US President Donald Trump delivers State of the Union speech1:27
US President Donald Trump delivers State of the Union speech, discussing plans to end the crisis on the southern border, a second summit with Kim Jong-un, and hopes to reduce US troop presence.
February 6th 2019
16 days ago
/display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Network News/World/
US President Donald Trump salutes as he arrives back to the White House in Washington, DC, after his annual physical.Source:AFP
It’s reckoning time: President Donald Trump had his annual medical exam a year after his doctor advised him to up the exercise and cut the calories.
Trump spent more than four hours at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for a check-up supervised by Dr. Sean P. Conley, his physician, and involving a panel of 11 specialists.
“I am happy to announce the President of the United States is in very good health and I anticipate he will remain so for the duration of his Presidency, and beyond,” Conley wrote afterwards.
He did not go into detail except to say Trump did not undergo any procedures requiring sedation or anaesthesia.
He said reports and recommendations stemming from the exam were still being finalised.
It’s unclear how much more detail will be released in the coming days.
Last year, Trump clocked in at 6-foot-3 and 239 pounds.
He had a body mass index, or BMI, of 29.9, putting him in the category of being overweight for his height.
A BMI of 30 or more is considered obese.
His doctor then said the president was in “excellent health” but would do well to drop 10 to 15 pounds and shift to a low-fat, low-carb diet and take up a more defined exercise routine.
One of the big questions Friday was how well Trump heeded that advice.
Trump, 72, doesn’t drink alcohol or smoke, but he’s not a big fan of the gym either.
His primary form of exercise is golf.
And he says he gets plenty of walking in around the White House complex.
As for his diet, Trump’s love of fast food remains.
Last month, he invited the college football champion Clemson Tigers to the White House during the partial government shutdown.
With the White House kitchen too understaffed to cater a meal, Trump stepped in: He ordered burgers, french fries and pizza.
US President Donald Trump speaking alongside fast food he purchased for a ceremony honouring the 2018 College Football Playoff National Champion Clemson Tigers in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington. Picture: TwitterSource:Twitter
Modern-day presidents have undergone regular exams to catch any potential problems but also to assure the public that they are fit for office, something Trump’s doctor last year took to an extraordinary level.
After Trump’s first exam as president, Dr. Ronny Jackson, a Navy rear admiral, declared Trump to be in “excellent health.”
He also said of Trump: “He has incredibly good genes, and it’s just the way God made him.” Conley replaced Jackson after Trump nominated the latter to lead the Veterans Affairs Department.
The nomination ran into trouble early as politicians questioned his qualifications to run the government’s second-largest department.
President Donald Trump talks as his son Eric Trump waits as they play golf at Trump Turnberry Luxury Collection Resort during the President's first official visit to the United Kingdom last year. Picture: GettySource:Getty Images
Also, current and former colleagues accused Jackson of professional misconduct, including loosely dispensing medications and on-the-job drunkenness.
Jackson denied the allegations but eventually withdrew his nomination.
Trump recently promoted Jackson to be an assistant to the president and chief medical adviser. He will advise the president on topics including veterans’ issues, the opioid crisis and health issues at the US-Mexico border.
Jackson, who is still under investigation, will also travel and work closely with White House staff.
Last year, doctors checked the president’s eyes; ears, nose and throat; heart; lungs; gastrointestinal tract; skin; and teeth.
Neurological, cognitive and stress tests were also performed. Trump’s hearing was not tested; Jackson said he ran out of time.
The exam stretched past four hours.
Donald Trump's most childish habits1:18
He's super smart and has loads of really rich famous friends. Meet the child stuck inside a president's body.
January 10th 2018
a year ago
Add your comment to this story
To join the conversation, please Log in . Don't have an account? Sign up
Join the conversation, you are commenting as Logout
News Pty Limited Copyright © 2019. All times AEDT (GMT +11).
