This site uses cookies for analytics, personalized content and ads. By continuing to browse this site, you agree to this use. Learn more
Obama health official blasts Trump's physical exam: 'No doctor can predict someone’s future health'
Click to expand
1
Cancel
SETTINGS
OFF
HD
HQ
SD
LO
Trump highlights his accomplishments over the past two years as he heads into his 2020 re-election campaign
FOX News
Video by FOX News
The official who was previously tapped by former President Obama to lead the U.S. response to the Ebola crisis, slammed the White House physician's recent memo summarizing President Trump's second physical health exam in office.
"No doctor can predict someone's future health," Ronald Klain, who also served as chief of staff to former Vice President Joe Biden, said in a tweet on Saturday morning.
© Getty President Donald Trump signs the National Security Presidential Memorandum to Launch the "Women's Global Development and Prosperity" Initiative in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Thursday, Feb. 7, 2019. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
"This is a disgrace to an office with a great tradition of professionalism. Just another institution turned into a joke by a President determined to make anyone willing to submit an instrument of his lies," he continued.
No doctor can predict someone's future health.
This is a disgrace to an office with a great tradition of professionalism. Just another institution turned into a joke by a President determined to make anyone willing to submit an instrument of his lies https://t.co/X91box4Gm6
His tweet came a day after Sean Conley, the physician to the president, declared in a memo summarizing Trump's recent exam that he was in "very good health."
© Getty President Donald Trump listens during the National Prayer Breakfast, Thursday, Feb. 7, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)
Conley also said in the brief memo that he anticipates the president would remain in good health "for the duration of his presidency, and beyond."
The memo did not provide further details about the president's assessment.
© Getty Ivanka Trump, the daughter of President Donald Trump, right, accompanied by President Donald Trump, center, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, left, speaks before Trump signs the National Security Presidential Memorandum to Launch the "Women's Global Development and Prosperity" Initiative in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Thursday, Feb. 7, 2019. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) Conley said reports and recommendations regarding the president's health are "still being finalized," indicating more information could be released at a later date.
The exam marked the second physical Trump received as president.
