Donald Trump mocks 'Pocahontas' Democrat Elizabeth Warren as she makes bid for presidency
The president pokes fun at the senator who hopes her pledge to fight economic inequality will help her stand out among Democrats.
By  Adam Arnold, news reporter
Fill 2 Copy 11
Sunday 10 February 2019 15:04, UK
Image: Donald Trump made a swipe at the Democrat candidate following her announcement
Donald Trump has mocked senator Elizabeth Warren, calling her "Pocahontas" as she became the latest Democrat to formally announce she is running for the US presidency.
The 69-year-old Democrat - one of the party's most recognisable faces - had formed an exploratory committee on New Year's Eve looking into a possible bid to win the nomination.
Her campaign launch comes at a challenging moment for the Massachusetts senator.
She has twice apologised in the last fortnight for claiming Native American heritage on multiple occasions early in her career.
Poking fun at Ms Warren on Twitter in response to the news, President Trump wrote: "Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President.
"Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!"
Image: She is hoping her pledge to fight economic inequality will help distinguish her in an already crowded field
The Democrat is hoping her pledge to fight economic inequality and build "an America that works for everyone" will help distinguish her in an already crowded field.
More from US
She officially announced she was joining the 2020 White House race at a mill site in Lawrence, Massachusetts, where immigrant factory workers went on strike about 100 years ago.
Ms Warren delivered a sharp call for change and criticised a "middle-class squeeze" that has left "too little accountability for the rich, too little opportunity for everyone else".
But during her speech to supporters she avoided hitting out directly at Mr Trump.
She has proposed a wealth tax, imposed annually on "ultra-millionaires". Fortunes over $50m (£38m) would be taxed at 2% and billionaires would pay 3% - reportedly raising $2.75trn (£2.12trn) over 10 years.
Image: Senator Kamala Harris is one of the current favourites for the Democrat nomination
The current frontrunners for the Democrat nomination, according to bookmakers, include California senator Kamala Harris, former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke and former US vice president Joe Biden.
Mr O'Rourke and Mr Biden have not yet announced whether they will run in 2020.
In the latest betting, Ms Warren is behind all three as well as Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, who lost to Hillary Clinton in the previous Democrat campaign. He is still undeclared.
Ms Warren has spent the past decade in the national spotlight, including as a consumer activist during the 2007-2008 financial crisis.
She later headed the congressional panel that oversaw the $700bn (£540bn) bailout of hundreds of banks and as well as insurers and automakers.
After Republicans blocked her from running the consumer financial protection bureau, an agency she helped create, she ran for the Senate in 2012 and defeated a Republican incumbent.
She has $11m (£8.5m) left over from her 2018 Senate re-election victory that can be used on her presidential run.
More stories
© 2019 Sky UK
We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Close
Close
