Actor Rob Lowe deletes Elizabeth Warren joke after backlash, Trump takes enough heat for both of them
Actor Rob Lowe deletes Elizabeth Warren joke after backlash, Trump takes enough heat for both of them
 
Just as it was inevitable that Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., was going to run for president in 2020, so too was it inevitable that she would face unrelenting ridicule over her claims to be a Native American.
With Warren officially announcing her bid on Saturday, it was game on and one of the first to get in on the fun of mocking the Democrat for the far-fetched claim she recently apologized for was actor Rob Lowe.
Grabbing the low hanging fruit, Lowe tweeted what he later characterized as a “joke” mocking Warren’s title should she be successful in her run — the tweet sent liberals over the edge and would eventually lead the actor to delete the post.
“Elizabeth Warren would bring a whole new meaning to Commander in ‘Chief,'” Lowe tweeted.
As conservative fireplug Michelle Malkin noted in a tweet of her own, with the far left having outlawed any sense of humor in America, social justice warriors’ heads exploded in faux outrage over the tweet.
Look at all the #sjw heads exploding over this gentle ribbing of Senator Red Face.
Because nobody is allowed to laugh at anything ever.
Speaking of inevitable, just a couple of hours after Lowe’s tweet, President Donald Trump, who has been referring to Warren as “Pocahontas” for some time, weighed in with his own observation that would quickly overshadow Lowe’s offering.
Trump tweeted: “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!”
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
The anti-Trump cabal interpreted the capitalization of the word “trail” in the worst way possible — this being an early symptom of Trump Derangement Syndrome.
Clutching their pearls, they claimed the president was making fun of the infamous “Trail of Tears,” where 4,000 Cherokee people died in a forced relocation from their ancestral homelands in the Southeastern United States to “Indian Territory” out west.
Trump is no stranger to the manufactured outrage, but neither is Lowe, a rare breed in Hollywood in that he’s a conservative known to be outspoken out his beliefs.
Nonetheless, Lowe would delete the arrow he fired at Warren, explaining it wasn’t his intention to upset people: “I deleted my Elizabeth Warren tweet. It was a joke and some peeps got upset, and that’s never my intention. On the GOOD side: I just got to use the Oxford comma!”
I deleted my Elizabeth Warren tweet. It was a joke and some peeps got upset, and that’s never my intention. On the GOOD side: I just got to use the Oxford comma!
Of course, it the goal is not to upset people in hypersensitive post-Obama America, one would need to remain in bed under a blanket all day.
Here’s a short sampling of a few notables who rejected Lowe’s tweet:
Just when I was liking Rob Lowe after his moving comments about being his mom’s caretaker—he takes a page from Trump. Ick. You shouldn’t do this: https://t.co/TUgmoMNn8B
Tonight, the role of Scott Baio will be played by Rob Lowe. https://t.co/Tpv9RVwyRh
What a raw blow!
Don’t. Jesus.
While the criticism was enough to prompt Lowe to reconsider, it didn’t come close to the unhinged hatred that was directed at President Trump:
This motherfucker actively admires Andrew Jackson.
He knows EXACTLY what he's saying when he "jokes" about the Trail of Tears. https://t.co/LqrEjd9cS1
TRAIL as in Trail of Tears? You vile racist! https://t.co/PDkUfwVKyF
Not that Lowe didn’t have his share of defenders, to include indigenous people, who said he should not have deleted what they saw as a “funny” joke.
Here’s a sampling of responses from Twitter:
I’m an actually registered Cherokee Indian from Oklahoma. There was no reason to need to delete it. It wasn’t offensive at all and was pretty funny. What Warren did for years is far more offensive than any joke about it. Also, always use the Oxford comma. Well done.
I’m an actually registered Cherokee Indian from Oklahoma. There was no reason to need to delete it. It wasn’t offensive at all and was pretty funny. What Warren did for years is far more offensive than any joke about it. Also, always use the Oxford comma. Well done.
Well, I’m glad I saw it before you deleted it ‘cause it was pretty funny!! Ya. Commander in Chief!
Yep. I have always liked him. Now I know why.
Rob Lowe was just joking. Everybody is so sensitive these days  Just a bunch of snowflakes! #ElizabethWarren2020 is the person who lied about her race for votes and Rob is the a$$hole  Liberal Logic  https://t.co/nxriNSFGQw
Not that some weren’t disappointed in the actor for capitulating to the PC crowd.
Disappointing.
Never thought you were the type of person that would allow yourself to be bullied by online trolls.
True to its nature, the interaction on the toxic wasteland known as social media would soon devolve into a raucous debate over the proper use of an an Oxford comma.
We know first-hand that censorship against conservative news is real. Please share stories and encourage your friends to sign up for our daily email blast so they are not getting shut out of seeing conservative news.
Latest posts by Tom Tillison ( see all )
Your email
Recipient email
