It is going to be harder for Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer to work against funding border security after tonight.  President Donald Trump’s State of The Union speech was measured by CBS after delivery.  The results were initally tweeted :
♦ 76 percent of CBS viewers approved of what they heard in President. Trump’s SOTU speech;
♦ 72 percent of CBS viewers said they approved of President Trump’s SOTU ideas for immigration.
Advertisements
Should have double-checked.
Any more doubts about just exactly WHY the Dems tried to stop the SOTU from happening?  Thought not.  Nancy, Chuck, and ALL the dem “candidates” for 2020 just got their clocks cleaned on national TV. They ALL were exposed as the petty petulant childish asses they are.  50 million people ( a guess) got to see them in all their sullen dour glory, scowling,  while Trump was telling all of US that times were good..AGAIN…for US.
The Dems looked like their Metamucil had just kicked in.  I ‘d hate to see Nancy’s dental bill when she goes in to have her dentures repaired.  How did you break these in two Ms Peloisi?. Schumer looked just like Gary Oldman’s “Dracula” did when Keanu Reeves” Jonathan Harker” cut himself shaving when Trump called for an end to late term abortion. Bernie Sanders looked like the old petulant burn out that he is when Trump said “We will NEVER be a socialist country” AOC looked “small” petulant, petty, and way out over her skis.  Kamalla Harris looked like someone had just given her dog a colonoscopy with a cat. Schiff’s eyes nearly vacated his cranium when trump called out futile partisan investigations as a KILLER for the economy.   ONLY Trump could literally “trick the white clad “resist” klatch into giving him not one but TWO standing ovations.
Poor Stacy Abrams.  I haven’t seen such dejection since in the movie “Great Balls of Fire” with Dennis Quaid as Jerry Lee Lewis. Lewis,  pissed off that he had to open for Chuck Berry, played his signature song “great balls of fire” with his piano on FIRE…LITERALLY.  Then, when exiting the stage, Lewis looked at Berry and said “Follow that killer” THAT is what Stacy Abrams looked like to me.  Then she spoke, and made it WORSE.  She was like Bizzaro Trump ” Me think everything bad, orange man no do good, everything is really sucks.” SMH.  LOL Trump OWNS these people.  No wonder Maxine practically BEGGED people not to watch.   So sorry mad max, tic toc..the people now KNOW.  If you think it is bad for your ilk NOW just wait till the declass happens.  It will make the backlash on you all from the SOTU look like someone forgot to put pickles on your burger.
Feel free…to steel them, and yes, Trump was definitely denting some of the Dems cars in the parking lot.  There were an awful lot of hanging curves for him to crush.
I told one of my buddies just this morning that somewhere last night in Heaven, Reagan was talking to Washington and Lincoln while watching this speech Ronnie says” Hey George…do you believe the balls on this guy Trump?” George says… “yep, as big as the liberty bell.” Abraham chimes in “It’s about time! Wouldn’t you agree Mr Jackson?” Andrew nods in approval.   Teddy Roosevelt then says ” Trump speaks LOUDLY and carries a BIGGER stick”
That’s a lot of people.
If they didn’t like the content of this speech, God help and protect us from what they really want.
Among the huge disappointments are Josh Hawley from Missouri and Marsha Blackburn from Tennessee.  Obviously, they have little appreciation for the ground game, hard earned money donated and tireless efforts of their supporters.  Apparently, President Trump making multiple campaign appearances for them, confident they would support him, quickly disappeared once McConnell’s henchmen paid them a visit.
Hard working, ordinary people, Forgotten Men and Women, worked hard and put great faith behind Hawley and Blackburn to make sure Claire McCaskill would not be there last night and to ensure another Corker would not obstruct what’s best for America.
Mitt Romney sat there last night like a modern day Judas.  He was sinister, sweating up a storm and appeared so weak and predictable.
McConnell didn’t elect these people, we did.  It’s time for Americans represented by these weak kneed GOP senators and others that they are one term senators if they defy and deceive us any further.  Light up their phones today.  They pretended to board the Trump Train to get elected but quickly jumped off at the first stop.
Too hard on them?  You bet.  Republicans in that chamber last night answer to us and they better understand that starting today.
Judas at least finally showed remorse for betraying Christ.
Willard the Rat never will show remorse for all the people he’s backstabbed and sold out.
Thank you, farmhand.  You write with eloquence, wisdom, and fortitude.
You have directed us to stand up and fight with our President, to send a wake up call to the people we sent to D.C. to work for We the People, not for themselves.
Let’s keep the Trump Train rolling, folks!
Fire up!
This first one is for my fellow ‘seasoned citizens’:
This one has a contemporary sound, and as Hazel would say, “It’s a doozy!”:
So many great observations here.  Hadn’t seen the word “burnout” put to appropriate use in years!  Burnout Bernie Sanders most definitely has a ring to it.  The Little Women in White had a certain sameness to them, besides the old-fashioned nurses’ garb.  Mostly stringy dark hair, kind of beige skin — they couldn’t ALL be Hispanic, could they?  At least AOC is pretty and knows how to work that look, the red lipstick and hoop earrings, with hair under control, pulled back.  They were jittery, moving around a lot and whispering among themselves.
I predict that the Democrat Suffragist Look will have a short lifespan.  It’s the Republican Women who should adopt this.  They were the ones who made woman suffrage happen.  Their first vote for President of the USA in 1920 elected Warren G, Harding overwhelmingly!  Suggest that everyone here read up on young Harry Burn (no s), a Republican legislator from East Tennessee, who in the TN House of Representative changed his vote to “for” suffrage (red rose) as recommended by his mother, ‘Feb’ Burn.  All hell broke out, but Tennessee thus provided the “Perfect 36” (3/4 of the states needed to adopt) to vote for woman suffrage 19th Amendment, which was then signed by President Wilson,
I saw that they had talked into joining this kaffee klatsch the longest-serving woman in the House, Cong. Marcy Kaptur, from a district in Ohio that stretches along the lakeshore from the West Side of CLE to Toledo.  Ohio has lost representation the past several re-districtings.  So as not to lose her seniority, they’ve gerrymandered the heck out of the state.  A black woman, Marcia Fudge, represents CLE’s East Side and the district is tortuously worked all the way to Akron and south.  So she’s the only black congresscritter in the state at this point.  Kaptur’s a pretty reasonable individual, not totally nuts like some of the younger ones.  But I ain’t fooled, she is still a Democrat and most likely goes along with Nancy P. on most stuff.  Not sure about abortion, though, as Marcy’s old school Polish-Catholic neighborhood in Toledo is pretty conservative.  There’s also some “Ukrainian Collusion” stuff that she’s been involved with.  OT here.
She made Willie Brown give her gubmint jobs.
MAGA!
The “pic” of RBG seems doctored upon inspection – and incredibly low at best. It appears to be her wearing the exact outfit she was to the Sundance Film Festival last year. She showed up to a play about her, yet her presence was not announced, and no one knew she was there.
If you believe that, I have some ocean front property in Idaho for you.
theconservativetreehouse.com/2019/02/05/senator-mitch-mcconnell-announces-he-is-especially-proud-of-legislation-rebuking-president-trump/
The bill passed 77-yea, 23-nea.  [Vote Tally Here] The only Republican who voted against perpetual war in the middle east and supported President Trump was Rand Paul.
Please fact-check at above link from Sundance. Rand Paul was the ONLY ONE…
the whole presentation was ab her.
If she were there, they should have intro’d her and clapped…AND memorialized the occasion with pics.
Not just announced she was present.
hahaha. fail.
Like Like
Notice the people claiming to have seen her at the theater have all quickly shut up about it.  Bottom line, a person in their 80’s that needed a lobe removed with two tumors in it isn’t in good shape. Her son claims she walks a mile a day since her lung surgery and works out with a trainer.  Give us a break.  If anything, she has a physical therapist helping her walk from the bed to the bathroom.
If her lung cancer is a primary site rather than metastases from previous cancers, she may last awhile longer.  If her pancreatic or colon cancer has spread to her lungs her prognosis is poor.  When her post surgical report revealed ‘no further treatment required’ that was suspicious. The statement was intended to make it look like having lung cancer is no big deal, just cut the tumors out and hit the treadmill.
Lung cancer remains one of the most deadly.  Once it has advanced far enough for lesions to show up on xray, very aggressive counter measures are undertaken.  Unless the patient is too physically frail and can’t tolerate it and/or the cancer is too advanced to try and fight it.
Chief Justice Roberts needs to address the situation sooner than later.  Ruth’s days of playing politics are over.  Time to put the country first.
And furthermore.. if she is in any shape that makes her on the road to recovery, we would be seeing signs, articles and pictures showing it.  Her health is not good… her prognosis is not good.  She should step down and enjoy her remaining days, but of course, the Dems will keep her going until they can no longer suppress the truth.
Roberts has to know.  Time to fill in the country.  If the sides were switched, you know the MSM would be camped outside the house.
In Woody Allen’s movie “Sleeper,” the dictator “The Leader” is repeatedly shown to the public sitting in a wheel chair, recovering, after a terrorist [rebels fighting for freedom] bomb went off.
In truth, “The Leader’s” nose was the only part of him found after the bomb blast. And, there’s a secret project to clone him from that one remaining body part.
There have been real life examples of the public being repeatedly mislead about the extent of a person’s illnesses and/or physical infirmities: Wilson and FDR being two examples.
Has anyone searched the web to see if there is information about attempts to clone RBG from, say, a broken rib, lung tissue, or her nose?
Sadly, I’ve seen the work that morticians can do.
Some are pretty good at making a deceased individual look pretty ‘glam’ – or, at the very least, presentable. So, RBG could have assumed room temperature some place, and be looking ‘glam’.
Don’t know about the whole ‘running a mile’ each day. Judging from how she looks when being interviewed, the only way she’s going a mile is in some kid’s soapbox-derby racer.
RBG’s health issues – absence and frailty – diminishes her ability to fairly hear all cases.  Every plaintiff and defendant that comes before SCOTUS has a right to his/her case heard by the entire bench.
She (and Robert’s) are doing a great disservice to the court and everyone who comes before the court.
E = mc^2 is elementary-school arithmetic, but Special Relativity’s implications are extraordinarily subtle.
For a further glimpse of noumenal reality, try Planck’s E = hv (“nu”), the basis of all quantum theory, or physics’ seminal “imaginary number” x^2 + 1 = 0 (here, x equals the square root of -1, but that’s impossible because negative roots result in contradiction).
Though math is descriptive, not prescriptive (“no-one tells Nature what to do”), the imaginary root i is nonetheless definitive.  As Hamilton discerned, this is not an abstract computational anomaly but a beautifully symmetrical “dimensional rotation.”
Absent i, there would be no modern world.
I thought General Relativity was the great break through while Special only concluded that yes inertial mass exists throughout space.
I believe the “beautiful symmetry” was Hawkings basis for time not being a historical constant, I always resort to non-Euclidean geometry to help rationalize the seeming paradox of space time.  It makes my brain hurt less.
IBM is now building quantum computers based on “spooky” logic, instead of binary they use trinary with  1,  0  and Maybe.   This should make us all feel less concerned about our computer becoming obsolete too soon. :-0
(I really wish I could put a /sarc.)
Just give them a moment to gather their thoughts and they will soon get their message straightened out.
This shows the American people, if allowed to hear the truth without the MSM filter, loved it.  but.. never you worry.. they will be full blown against everything in the morning!
Birds of a feather?  Buzzards all.  Has anyone noticed that DiFi is almost as visible as RBG lately?  I expected her to be right a the front of this #MeToo thing with Vanessa Tyson right alongside Maizie, Kamala, Lobucher, Gillebrand, et al!  Then there’s the California Liar’s Club.
Didn’t you love the way NOncy directed her “choir” of women to stand as PDJT reminded us that one century after gaining the right to vote there are more women in Congress than ever before.  She was in control of the White Knights last night.
the Dems are so screwed.
we need to step up our vigilance against their cheating: they see these polls too!
and
yep Searkreb, the republiCON establishment would rather a Dem win a race than a Tea Party/MAGA candidate of any party persuasion.
Repubs are just as broken and corrupt as Dems, unless you listen to fake news radio parrots who have banked their entire careers on blaming LIBDEMS LIBDEMS LIBDEMS for every issue in life.
MAGA 
Mitch looked very jaundiced last night. Very jaundiced.
At least we have one decent senator from Ky. representing us. Rand Paul.
Goods times, ya’ll.
What will this years whitewash story be?
Step 1. Mention something out of the blue (voter suppression).
Step 2. Have your minions scour the internet for something,
anything that supports voter suppression.
Step 3. Have endless, wall to wall coverage of voter suppression
on the MSM. Like it is an overwhelming crisis.
Step 4. Have the late night talk show monologues do all their
“satire” on voter suppression.
Step 5. Have the “approved” politicians appear on Sunday news
shows, CNN, dance with Ellen to the tune of “Voter
Suppression”, give a chance for Joy Behar to look into
the camera with an outraged expression about it.
Or, we could find overwhelming evidence of voter fraud nationwide
to the point that it would completely negate all of steps 1-5.
Ball is in our court. Will we drop it?
The President absolutely killed it last night.  Great SOTU.
If only we didn’t have all the decepticon RINO’s holding this man back.
Because for the first time I registered Republican to vote for President Trump in the CA primary, I get the emails from both side. Surprisingly little from the GOP, but  it is true they sell your info. Never got them before registering. Fortunately they all go directly into the trash, but I do check that folder occasionally. Anyway, this is, in part, last nights’ email from the DSCC:
“Donald Trump didn’t waste any time in trying to deceive and mislead the American people with his State of the Union address.
We need to fight back and show Trump and the rest of the GOP that his incendiary comments won’t go unanswered. We’re going to kick Republicans who enable this hate and fear out of the Senate in the upcoming elections.
Trump has built his entire brand on hate, fear, division, and utter contempt for truth.”
Clueless and pathetic, aren’t they?
ERRRRrrr, aren’t they talking about the DemonRats??
Oh yeah — PROJECTION!  Got it.
Can we get a “Call Mitch Now Campaign” going as we need to let him have it.
I actually think he looked more angry and anti-trump than any of the Dems and Pelosi last night.
If he got 2,000 calls today telling him it is time for him to support PT and not his caretaker, COC.
He needs to get the sense that millions upon millions of Americans will work tirelessly to take him down in 2020 if he does not start supporting PT especially his hundreds of appointees who are waiting to be confirmed and PT’s position on war!
It is time to hammer his phone line IMO.
Calling does no good. We will never restore the Republic so long as the 17th Amendment stands.
Senate staffers laugh at our calls. They do not give a damn what we think, want or need because they are untouchable. The only thing that may work is a repeal of the 17th Amendment. Try calling  House legislators from A-Z and ask if they are willing to sponsor or support the repeal of the 17th Amendment.
The problem with Mitch and the rest of the the subversive Uniparty Senate is that they control the Party election machines in their States. Before the 17th, States could recall their Senators if they voted against the will of their States voters. Recall bypasses the corrupt Party machines and the USCoC influence.
McConnell Senate Committee · PO BOX 1496 · LOUISVILLE, KY 40201 · USA
(Interesting how USA is at the end of the address.  Mitch might be soliciting foreign, illegal contributions).
Pelosi looked like a spoiled stupid child. Was it not too long ago her approval rating was 7%?
Trump absolutely crushed it last night. He covered so many items like prison reform Pharma cost reductions jobs jobs jobs energy China on and on. The entire address was genuine and transcended party lines to the viewer at home. Pelosi and Schumer better take a look at the CBS 72% metric before launching their pathetic impeachment farce. It will backfire bigly, they’ll be out in 2020 bigly
Trump. Always. Wins. Period.
He looked visibly upset having to deliver that MAGA NEWS!  It was almost as if he threw up in his mouth and then had to swallow it before he told us.      
And I bet the person who did the graphic was really triggered BIGLY.  Probably had to send them home early.
FINALLY we get some real-time FACTS!
Not FAKE words and FAKE polls!
Bravo America!
Literally the opposite of what he campaigned on. #SOTU #PromisesMadePromisesBroken
Patrick Reddy, UPI
Now, 38 years after of John F. Kennedy’s assassination, it is apparent the Kennedys have a substantive legacy that is much more important: The 1965 Immigration Reform Act promoted by President Kennedy, drafted by Attorney General Robert Kennedy and pushed through the Senate by Ted Kennedy has resulted in a wave of immigration from the Third World that should shift the nation in a more liberal direction within a generation. It will go down as the Kennedy’s family greatest gift to the Democratic Party.
Me too, antiqueiron!!!  Can’t believe so many see only the quality issue without recognizing the quantity when it comes to mass immigration.  Does everyone want to live in a super high density Los Angeles or New York environment?  To me they are nothing more than dung heaps of humanity in terms of quality of life.
Here in desert UT, we are growing like mad but where they are going to find the water to support such growth is a HUGE dilemma.  So much of the U.S., particularly the West, is not suitable for high density — space is not an issue but resources can be.   Sooner or later there is going to be severe rationing on water and I prefer it to happen without importing millions of people to compete for every drop.  California gets 40% of the nation’s immigrants so the quality of life is quickly deteriorating (in large part due to mass immigration but not exclusively) that they leapfrog here to escape it.  That’s what I did and so many here, but at a certain point nature is going to put a stop to it.
They obviously didn’t have enough time to change the planned costumes:
Who’s dumb idea was it for them to all wear white? #sotu pic.twitter.com/1pSjg0hSMe
Costly consequences go on and on
5 Feb 2019
5. Secure Border Initiative Network
The Secure Border Initiative Network (SBInet) project, organized with the aim of creating a virtual border fence spanning a 53 mile section of the U.S.-Mexico border, was canceled in 2011. Price tag: $1 billion. SBInet’s failure followed the loss of a combined $500 million by its predecessor, the Integrated Surveillance and Intelligence System, and the American Shield Initiative.
SBInet was originally supposed to cover Arizona’s 600-kilometer border with Mexico using what prime contractor Boeing promised was “proven, low risk, off-the-shelf technology.” But the plan turned out to be anything but. Mix in incompetent government program oversight and management [PDF], and the road to project cancellation was paved with plenty of taxpayer dollars.
After SBInet’s plug was pulled, the government promised to pour hundreds of millions more dollars into virtual fencing along the border. It has kept its word in that regard, initiating the 2011 Arizona Technology [PDF] and 2014 Southwest Border Technology [PDF] plans. Each has had varying degrees of effectiveness, as the Government Accountability Office has thoroughly documented [PDF] in its review of both plans. Their true efficacy is debatable, since, as the GAO pointedly noted in its report, the Custom and Border Patrol “is limited in its ability to determine the mission benefits of its surveillance technologies.”
******Despite there being no consensus about what technology works well and what doesn’t, a virtual border wall is being floated once again as a means to secure the border instead of the current administration’s politically contentious physical wall. The technology is ready to be deployed and is much improved over that used before, say its proponents—the same claim that was made when SBInet was being oversold. Déjà vu all over again is the likely result, which means not only more money spent, but more fuel poured onto raging political and technological quarrels over how to best secure the border.******
I watched it on C-Span, which if you’re not aware actually does a pretty good job of being fair and unopinionated.  They always let callers call in afterwards, and they always provide two lines for callers that support, and don’t support.
Without fail, they always have more callers that support, and that’s when they’re asking people to call in!  You’d think they’d be able to put as many as they want that were haters on the air, but last night for instance they put about 7 or 8 supporters on, and 3 that didn’t support it.
So the first person that didn’t support it was some crazy woman from California, she said that the reason President Trump hates Mexicans is because two Mexican businessmen ripped him off once in 2013.  She was a complete whackjob and the guy cut her off to get her off the phone 
All (but 1) of the supporters were well reasoned, and 1 sounded a little slow but he still made good points.
So they have another person that didn’t support him, it was some college kid who like, couldn’t like talk… like, without, like… spewing some of the like talking points of the like Liberal like left.  So he said walls don’t work (LOL) and that most of the drugs come in through the ports (where we check… and nobody knows how many come through the unprotected border because we don’t check)
Then they have another person that doesn’t support him, and it was some crazy liberal from Ohio who was really, really, really mad that he attacked Live, Born, lying on a table CHILD MURDER.
All in all I got the impression from C-Span that the vast majority of the country supports him, agreed with what he said, and there’s a few weirdos out there….
The Main Event
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Advertisements
RT @ i24NEWS_EN : The latest #NYT report on Trump shows the newspaper now operates as the Comey and McCabe arm of the #Russiagate narrative,… 14 hours ago
I would love to know what's behind these FISC Court footnote redactions. https://t.co/fmsvcCPVaM 14 hours ago
George Zimmerman Case Research
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 128,494 other followers
Our Tree House
Our Mission Statement
Research and Analysis
Blog Of The Year
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
