Their charisma and exuberance is infectious, but could their leap of faith also take voters over the cliff edge?
At the end of Thelma & Louise, as the net closes in on the outlaws, Geena Davis’s character turns to her friend and says she doesn’t ever remember feeling this awake. The freedom they craved may be violent and volatile compared to the steady suburban unhappiness of the lives they left behind, but at least now it feels as if there’s something to live for.
There was a hint of something similar about a gleeful Heidi Allen declaring, as she left the Conservative party this week, that she was “tired of feeling numb” about politics; that she hadn’t felt this excited in years. The self-styled “ three amigos ” driving away from the Tories into an uncertain future as independents will no doubt have suffered their share of sleepless nights over this particular road trip. But compared with the rather grief-stricken press conference given by their colleagues leaving the Labour party , the excitement was palpable, and for a certain kind of female voter it’s undoubtedly infectious.
Sajid Javid makes Britain look weak by refusing to take back a groomed teenager – nationality doesn’t depend on whim
When I was 16 I stopped off in Holland, during a camping holiday with a friend. We bought as much marijuana as we could and smoked it all in an afternoon. Sat behind a housing estate in the border town of Nijmegen, we giggled, rambled and lay around until the local police came. They took us back to the campsite (we found the fact that they spoke Dutch hilarious), where we were asked for our passports and train tickets. They already had our number: a couple of idiots out of their minds and out of their depth. They told us to get on the next train in the direction of the port. We’d stopped laughing by then. We went home.
Adolescents do stupid things. Often they know they are stupid at the time
The UK won't be able to roll over an EU trade deal with Japan in time for Brexit, Liam Fox has said.
Buildup of freight at Channel tunnel might affect services into capital, operator warns
Rail passengers commuting into London could have services disrupted by freight trains if a no-deal Brexit causes logjams at the Channel tunnel, it has emerged.
Go-Ahead, the company behind the rail operator Southeastern, said it was working with the government to try to ensure commuters were not affected.
Perhaps sharing the same thoughts as the British public, European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker has admitted he has "Brexit fatigue".
(Reuters Health) - When influenza-like illnesses spread in the community, death rates go up for patients on dialysis, a new study shows.
Naomi Wayne, Iain Forbes, Claire Tomalin, Sarah Eccleston and William Schabas give their views on the Isis recruit having her UK citizenship revoked
The basis for revoking Shamima Begum’s citizenship ( Javid faces legal threat over Isis recruit’s citizenship , 20 February) could, potentially, apply to millions of other Brits if we behave in a way that the home secretary is satisfied “is seriously prejudicial to the vital interests of the United Kingdom”. Sajid Javid cannot legally make Begum stateless, so he relies on having “reasonable grounds for believing that [Begum] is able, under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, to become a national of such a country or territory”.
Many – perhaps nearly all – British-born children and grandchildren of immigrants have no lesser ability to acquire an overseas citizenship. In addition, several hundred thousand British Jews are able, without having to demonstrate any familial connection to the country, to become Israeli citizens. Then there are all those Brits who are currently using familial connection to secure citizenship of an EU country. Where they succeed, then there is definitely no risk of statelessness, should their British citizenship go up in flames. Kneejerk law is always bad, and never worse than that relating to national identity and citizenship status.
Naomi Wayne
Carol Ferguson on James Malone-Lee’s treatment, and Carolyn Sugden on her personal experience
Your excellent article about chronic urinary tract infections ( Would I ever get back to normal life? , G2, 20 February) highlights the lack of awareness among medical professionals and the poor treatment approaches available on the NHS to this debilitating condition, which my 28-year-old daughter has suffered from for the last 12 years. I can frequently recall watching her in pain and discomfort, and the continued impact it has had on her professional and personal life, and our family life.
It was not until seeking treatment with Professor James Malone-Lee, whose pioneering of a different approach your article discusses, that she began to show some recovery. It isn’t acceptable that his treatment approach is only available privately and that the way of testing for UTIs is outmoded. It’s time the National Institute for Health Research commissioned a clinical trial that would hopefully help the thousands of people (mainly women) who suffer from it.
Carol Ferguson
Pope Francis promised that concrete action against child sexual abuse by priests would result from a conference he opened on Thursday, with one cardinal acknowledging that the Church had to fight "the enemy within".
Catalyst Pharmaceuticals Inc, rebuked by U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders for its high drug prices, on Thursday defended its $375,000 treatment for a rare disease, saying the price was in line with similar products in the industry.
The United States and North Korea will seek a common understanding of what denuclearization means when President Donald Trump presses Kim Jong Un next week to give up all of the North's nuclear weapons, U.S. officials said on Thursday.
(Reuters Health) - Yet another benefit of eating a diet containing high amounts of whole grains may be a reduced risk of liver cancer, a new U.S. study suggests.
Opposition keeps pressure on Coalition over banking reform but is set to make concessions to mortgage broking industry
Labor will create a new compensation scheme allowing some victims of banking scandals to have their cases reopened, and will also lift the current cap on claims to $2m as part of its response to the Hayne royal commission.
As well as allowing victims to reopen cases, giving people a chance to re-prosecute their complaints and potentially gain compensation up to the new caps, Bill Shorten will also pledge on Friday to put non-financial losses on the same footing as financial injury.
The commander of the overseas arm of Iran's Revolutionary Guards threatened Saudi Arabia with revenge over a suicide bomb attack in southeastern Iran on Feb. 13 that killed 27 Guards members, the semi-official Tasnim news agency reported on Thursday.
President Donald Trump's former campaign manager Paul Manafort will be sentenced in the U.S. District Court in Virginia on March 8, according to a court filing posted on Thursday.
A mother has been found guilty of child cruelty after the death of her son, who was allegedly crushed by a car seat.
Heather Stewart is joined by Andrew Rawnsley, Katy Balls and Matt Zarb-Cousin to discuss the biggest split in politics since 1981. Plus: as May heads back to Brussels, is a Brexit deal any nearer?
On Monday the “gang of seven” – Chuka Umunna, Luciana Berger, Ann Coffey, Mike Gapes, Chris Leslie, Gavin Shuker and Angela Smith – split from Labour, citing Jeremy Corbyn’s Brexit stance and failure to tackle antisemitism.
But then there were eight, then eleven, as Labour’s Joan Ryan joined their ranks, followed by Tories Anna Soubry, Sarah Wollaston and Heidi Allen, blaming the Conservative party’s lurch to the right and – yes, Brexit.
Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari and his closest rival Atiku Abubakar made their final appeal for votes on the last day of campaigning on Thursday ahead of a presidential election on Saturday that was delayed by a week.
Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp was fined £45,000 by the Football Association (FA) on Thursday for comments he made about the referee after his side's 1-1 draw with West Ham United in the Premier League on Feb. 4.
Wild animals are increasingly eating our food and scientists are discovering 'hidden effects'.
At least 10 people were killed and a number were wounded on Thursday when a bomb blast hit a minibus carrying workers employed in a major oil installation in eastern Syria run by a U.S.-backed Kurdish group, residents of the area said.
Decision has implications for rest of continent, where LGBT people face widespread discrimination
Judges in Kenya’s high court will decide on Friday whether to repeal laws criminalising homosexuality, in a potentially historic decision that has implications for the rest of Africa, where LGBT people face widespread discrimination.
“Everyone all over Africa is paying attention. Whatever happens in Kenya will have a direct impact on us all,” said Frank Mugisha, an activist based in neighbouring Uganda, where homosexuality is outlawed and authorities have attempted to impose harsher sentences on gay people in recent years.
Religious groups in Kenya have opposed any softening of its colonial-era laws, which punish sexual acts deemed “unnatural” with up to 14 years in prison, but pro-repeal campaigners say they are optimistic.
Lawyers acting for LGBT activists have argued that the laws contravene Kenya’s 2010 constitution.
“Our constitution is very progressive but there is legislation in place that is not. Repealing the laws would mean equal recognition … with rights such as the freedom to exist, to associate, to be free from discrimination. All these rights will finally be recognised for queer people in Kenya,” said Lelei Cheruto, of the National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (NGLHRC).
Hate crimes against gay people – including physical and sexual assault, blackmail and extortion – are common, but most victims are too fearful to go to the police, rights groups say.
“It is a challenge to be gay here because of society. You can be attacked whenever, wherever. There will be protests if we win,” said Mombo Ngua, an activist in Nairobi.
Kenya arrested 534 people for same-sex relationships between 2013 and 2017.
According to the NGLHRC, one of the petitioners against the law, there have been more than 1,500 attacks against LGBT Kenyans since 2014.
"I spent this morning texting some colleagues at 7am, and my colleagues responded - all of them with a version of 'why are you texting me at 7am?"
Sri Lanka seamers Kasun Rajitha and Vishwa Fernando took three wickets each to bowl out South Africa for 222 on the first day of the second and final test on Thursday, but the hosts struck back late in the day with the ball.
For the first time since the 1959 Revolution, Cuban voters on Sunday may express significant dissent, when they go to the polls to ratify a new constitution that institutes modest economic changes while maintaining the one-party system.
Ferrari newcomer Charles Leclerc has played down talk of his Italian team being faster already than Formula One champions Mercedes and said he suspected rivals were hiding their true pace.
Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido left Caracas with some 80 lawmakers on Thursday on a 800-km (500-mile) trip to the Colombian border where they hope to receive food and medicine to alleviate shortages in defiance of President Nicolas Maduro.
Cubans go to the polls Sunday to ratify a Communist Party-proposed overhaul of the island’s 1976 Magna Carta.
President Vladimir Putin has said that Russia is militarily ready for a Cuban Missile-style crisis if the United States wanted one, and that his country currently has the edge when it comes to a first nuclear strike.
British Prime Minister Theresa May faces another trial by parliament next week when she must tell lawmakers what progress she has made in talks with the European Union, as patience in her party wears thin and the risk of a disorderly Brexit rises.
The United States is not discussing with North Korea the possibility of removing U.S. troops from the Korean peninsula and is unsure whether Pyongyang has decided to fully denuclearize, senior Trump administration officials said on Thursday.
Spanish authorities say 28 others suffered food poisoning after dining at Riff in Valencia
One woman has died and 28 people have suffered food poisoning after eating at a Michelin-starred restaurant in the eastern Spanish city of Valencia.
The 46-year-old woman, who has not been named, became ill after having a meal at the Riff restaurant with her husband and son. She died in the early hours of Sunday. Her husband and son are recovering.
Lawyer for family of 19-year-old who joined Isis in Syria is to ask her consent for plan
The family of Shamima Begum are exploring legal and practical options to bring her baby son to the UK without her while she embarks on the potentially lengthy appeal against the removal of her British citizenship, the Guardian has learned.
The lawyer representing the 19-year-old’s family is planning to travel to the refugee camp in Syria where she is living “as soon as possible” to set in motion the legal appeal process, and to ask her consent to bring her newborn son back to Britain while she awaits a resolution of her legally tangled case.
Riot police briefly clashed with pro-independence Catalan protesters in Barcelona on Thursday while other activists burned tyres and blocked highways across northeast Spain as part of a day of protests against the trial of 12 separatist leaders.
Russian state prosecutors on Thursday formally charged top U.S. investor Michael Calvey, the founder of the Baring Vostok private equity group, with fraud, hours before Washington accused Moscow of denying its diplomats access to him.
The U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State is verifying whether French jihadist Fabian Clain, who claimed the November 2015 Paris attacks, has been killed in Syria, a French source said on Thursday.
Recent Posts
