By
10 shares
It’s been nearly a week since The New York Times dropped the revelatory bombshell that the FBI had opened a counter-intelligence investigation into President Donald Trump in the spring of 2017, shortly after he fired then-Director James Comey.
Normally, in the high-speed world of today’s political media, today’s bombshell is tomorrow’s birdcage lining, but this story apparently has legs. Democrats, who were all but certain that the juiciest parts of their conspiracy theory tying Trump to Russia were long behind them, seized on the opportunity to swing for the fences one more time. See?
Even the FBI thinks he’s a mole for the Kremlin! Yeah, well, that’s the Obama FBI for you.
For certain, this is a big story, but not for the reason the media thinks it is. The truth is that this is one of the final pieces confirming what we already knew about the intelligence/law enforcement apparatus holdovers from the Obama administration. It confirms what we already knew about Comey, Andrew McCabe, Rod Rosenstein, Robert Mueller, Peter Strzok, and the rest of the anti-American cabal. The rest of the so-called “Republicans” in the FBI and the DOJ who made it their mission to reverse the 2016 election by any means necessary.
Take it from The New York Times themselves. In their story, they tell us that there were two incidents that precipitated the investigation. The firing of Comey (and Trump’s later remarks about that firing) was one of them, which we’ll get to in a minute. The other? Trump’s joke in a 2016 press conference where he called on Russia to find Hillary Clinton’s 30,000 missing emails.
Seriously? Either we have people in the FBI leadership who are dumb enough to believe that this was Trump’s actual signal to Russian hackers, or this is a bad excuse they thought of later on, just in case they might have to answer for their treason. Either way, it’s a sad statement about the state of corruption in our FBI.
As for the firing of Comey, we’ve been over it a thousand times. The President of the United States is fully and constitutionally authorized to hire and fire anyone in his administration he would like. He can give a thousand conflicting reasons or he can give no reason at all. Using this as an excuse to open an investigation against him is beyond silly; it’s outrageous.
“No evidence has emerged publicly that Mr. Trump was secretly in contact with or took direction from Russian government officials,” the Times tells us in one of the last paragraphs.
Yeah, and none will. But the evidence that the FBI was run by partisans who abused their authority? Oh, we’ve got LOTS of that.
Continue Reading
News For You
9 shares Stein, an economist, lawyer, and writer, warned that, when politicians promising to punish success...
News For You
2 shares New York socialist Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez claims to be against capitalism, but a recent...
News For You
16 shares ONCE AGAIN HILLARY CLINTON IS TRYING TO RUN A SCAM ON THE AMERICAN PEOPLE....
News For You
68 shares California is a weird state to live in when it comes to politics. It...
News For You
9 shares The State Department finally released a batch of emails found on the laptop of...
IN YOUR INBOX!
Sign up for our daily email and get the stories everyone is talking about.
OK
By clicking OK I consent to having Red Right Videos use my data so they can better send me relevant content and advertisements that pay for it.
Latest Stories
To Top
Your email
Recipient email
