Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Live From Albany: Donald Trump says upstate NYers should consider leaving. Is he right?
Our Albany Bureau is live at noon to take your questions on how New York works.
Post to Facebook
Live From Albany: Donald Trump says upstate NYers should consider leaving. Is he right? Our Albany Bureau is live at noon to take your questions on how New York works. Check out this story on DemocratandChronicle.com: https://www.democratandchronicle.com/story/news/politics/albany/2019/02/08/live-albany-donald-trump-upstate-new-york/2811931002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Live From Albany: Donald Trump says upstate NYers should consider leaving. Is he right?
Albany Bureau Published 11:20 a.m. ET Feb. 8, 2019 | Updated 11:24 a.m. ET Feb. 8, 2019
ALBANY — President Donald Trump had some advice for upstate New Yorkers this week, and Gov. Andrew Cuomo didn't take kindly to it.
Trump on Wednesday said those in upstate New York should consider leaving and head to a state where they can find a better job, according to a transcript of a meeting he had with reporters.
Is he right? Or is Cuomo right when he says New York is on the upswing?
The reporters of our Albany Bureau will be here at noon Friday to read your responses, answer your questions and provide context  live on Facebook .
Bureau Chief Joseph Spector and correspondent Jon Campbell will be live from the Albany Bureau at noon to discuss the crash and take your questions.
Live From Albany will stream live in the video above and on Facebook.
Want to weigh in?
On Twitter? Direct your questions to  @GannettAlbany  and  @JonCampbellGAN .
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Rochester in 60 seconds: Get all the news you need to know in less than a minute.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-790-9565.
Delivery:
Thank you! You're almost signed up for ROC60
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Subscribe Now
