January 31, 2016 at 11:49 am EST | by Michael K. Lavers
Donald Trump would ‘consider’ justices to overturn marriage ruling
387 Shares
Donald Trump on Jan. 31, 2016, said he would “strongly consider” nominating U.S. Supreme Court justices who would overturn last year’s ruling that extended marriage rights to same-sex couples across the country. (Washington Blade file photo by Lee Whitman)
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump on Sunday said he would “strongly consider” nominating U.S. Supreme Court justices who would overturn last year’s ruling that extended marriage rights to same-sex couples across the country.
“I would be very strong on putting certain judges on the bench that I think maybe could change things,” Trump told Chris Wallace during an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”
Trump described the ruling in the Obergefell case as “very surprising.” The Republican frontrunner added that individual states should have decided whether to extend marriage rights to same-sex couples.
“It should be a state’s rights issue,” said Trump. “That’s the way it should have been ruled, not the way they did.”
Trump’s comments come a day before the Iowa caucuses.
A Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics Iowa Poll released on Saturday notes Trump is ahead of U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) by a 28-23 percent margin. U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) came in third with 15 percent.
Liberty University President Jerry Falwell, Jr., last week endorsed the thrice-married Trump.
5 Comments
Brian's Ions
Good. At long last, the homophobic Trump emerges from his shadowy campaign of hate for women and minorities.
This will energize millions of Dems, Independents and Republicans to vote for a clean sweep by Democrats in November… White House, Senate and House.
But we’ll have to work hard to overcome Trump’s billions.
lnm3921
Will it? Do most voters really care so much about marriage equality that that issue in itself will energize millions to vote for a clean sweep Democratic win? I don’t have confidence that voters are so idealistic as you.
Voters seems to care more about national security issues now. In bad economic times it’s about who can do the best job to create jobs. With so much stock market instability that maybe a consideration for voters in November, too,  if things don’t stabilize by then.
I’ve seen voters vote against the interest of social justice and the potential impact of supreme court nominees in past elections for candidates they thought were better on improving their economic situation or promoting homeland security.  Most voters don’t think about the impact of the SCOTUS. Only people like social conservatives are swayed by wedge issues.
Conservatives hate the fact that Obama has been in office for 8 years and the thought of Hillary getting into office may motivate them to come vote. Don’t take anything for granted. It maybe a tighter election than imagined.
Brian's Ions
Certainly, a lot can change during the course of “wave election” cycles– foreign events– ISIS Hamas/Gaza, Putin/Russia, terrorist incidents in America, presidential gaffes, presidential candidate gaffes. Candidates have little control over such events.
Stilll, pollsters look at the daily tracking numbers, and Trump’s negatives are at historic highs. Perceived gay-bashing cuts across the political spectrum.
It turns off exactly the kind of voters Trump would need to win nine months from now.
It energizes Dem voters and dampens GOP voters– with similar affects on the respective independent voters adjacent to each respective wing.
Trump is gambling that each minority (and their close allies) are going to forget his nasty words against them during his primary campaigns.
But Madison Avenue’s best are already putting together videos of ‘Trump… in his own words’ TV ads which will serve to remind voters of his lies and pandering during the primaries.
Gallup on Trump’s negatives…
It just confirms that it’s never a done deal as far as GOP conservatives are concerned. Everyone has said that SCOTUS ruling on marriage was the end of it. But we see that the GOP candidates continue to make it a wedge issue and insist that they can appoint activist conservative “Justices” that will reverse the ruling. They’ve wanted to do that regarding abortion rights and now they aim to do the same on this issue.
Don’t assume it isn’t possible. Remember that four of the conservative justices on the SCOTUS each came up with an opinion that did not conclude a constitutional right to marry. Only Kennedy was the swing vote that made the difference. This shows how important it is to have a President that will promote GLBT welfare and equality as they get to nominate candidates to the court. Most of the advances we’ve achieved as a community have been due to court rulings not legislative action. Be concerned and be vigilant. Complacency and believing your rights are safe is foolish. Look at the issues of voting rights and affirmative action.
Spare me arguments about being on the wrong side of history and other silly statements like that. They couldn’t care less about that and see the favorable ruling as being wrong! Wake up!
customartist
Popular Stories
Follow Us
