Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
President Trump's gaffe touts 'abolition of civil rights' at National Prayer Breakfast
"Many of our greatest strides ... have been led by people of faith," Trump said.
Post to Facebook
President Trump's gaffe touts 'abolition of civil rights' at National Prayer Breakfast "Many of our greatest strides ... have been led by people of faith," Trump said. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/02/07/trump-national-prayer-breakfast/2799508002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
President Trump's gaffe touts 'abolition of civil rights' at National Prayer Breakfast
William Cummings and John Fritze , USA TODAY Published 10:38 a.m. ET Feb. 7, 2019 | Updated 12:24 p.m. ET Feb. 7, 2019
CLOSE
During the National Prayer Breakfast, President Donald Trump made an apparent gaffe and celebrated the "abolition of civil rights." USATNetwork
WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump on Thursday outlined the importance of faith in American society in a speech that at times mirrored his State of the Union address from earlier this week.
"I will never let you down, I can say that," Trump told the crowd at the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington. 
The president proceeded to list his administration's accomplishments and goals. 
But those words were quickly overshadowed on social media when, in the midst of praising religion's role in U.S. history, Trump made an apparent gaffe and celebrated the "abolition of civil rights." 
Twitter users quickly took notice. 
Think Progress LGBTQ editor Zack Ford called it an "ironic misspeak." 
In an ironic misspeak, Trump gives people of faith credit for our country's greatest strides, like "the abolition of civil rights." pic.twitter.com/wf8x4qgDr3
"Teleprompter problems?" pondered Independent Journal Review editor Josh Billinson.
Teleprompter problem? Trump says people of faith have led in the "abolition of civil rights" during remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast pic.twitter.com/X1irymeqx8
Initially known as the  Presidential Prayer Breakfast, the event began in 1953 when President Dwight D. Eisenhower attended an already-existing prayer circle. Since then, the event has provided a forum for a discussion on the role of faith in politics.
Trump, who courted evangelicals and religious conservatives during the 2016 presidential election, discussed the importance of faith for political leaders dealing with problems that range from the opioid epidemic to the rogue regime of North Korea.
The president delighted religious conservatives by using his State of the Union address on Tuesday to call for a ban on late-term abortions . The issue has returned to the forefront of national politics as advocates on both sides prepare for the Supreme Court to potentially alter the precedent set in the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. 
"Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life," Trump said on Tuesday. "And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: All children – born and unborn – are made in the holy image of God."
He repeated that statement Thursday, adding, "Every life is sacred and every soul is a precious gift from heaven." The audience erupted in applause. 
