by
(Photo by Alex Edelman-Pool/Getty Images)
President Donald Trump commended second lady Karen Pence for her new job teaching art at a Christian school during the National Prayer Breakfast.
Pence faced a wave of backlash after taking the teaching job because of the school’s traditional beliefs on marriage. Despite the controversy, President Trump gave the second lady recognition for her new position.
Watch:
“I’ve gotten to know Karen so well. She is a Marine Corps mom, a tremendous woman, a proud supporter of military families, and she just recently went back to teaching art classes at a Christian school. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Terrific woman.”
While this may be the first time Trump has issued a statement of support for Pence and her new job, he is not the only one.
As IJR previously reported , Vice President Mike Pence also addressed the controversy surrounding his wife’s new teaching position. The vice president said, “My wife and I have been in the public eye for quite a while. We’re used to the criticism, but I have to tell you, to see major news organizations attacking Christian education, is deeply offensive to us.”
The vice president’s concerns about the national criticism for Christian education were echoed by Senator Ben Sasse (R-Neb.). Sasse called the backlash against Pence “fundamentally un-American.”
“Karen Pence is a lovely woman and she is trying to help and serve kids and she is doing it at a Christian school. She doesn’t need a job, she’s doing this to love her neighbor. She’s doing this to help kids learn about art. People have decided to attack her because it’s a Christian school. This is a fundamentally un-American way to think.”
There were still some that were not happy that President Trump gave Pence a shoutout during his speech. Several took to Twitter to accuse Trump of being against members of the LGBT community.
BREAKING:  In his National Prayer Breakfast speech, President Trump just complimented Karen Pence for teaching at a Christian School that bans L.G.B.T.Q. Students and Teachers.
That's not America first!  That's Bigotry first!
At the National Prayer Breakfast, Trump has already thanked Karen Pence for teaching at an anti-gay school & praised a Catholic adoption agency who refuse to adopt to gay people
But gay Republicans will still say “But he held up rainbow flag!”
Wake the fuck up!!!!
It’s disturbing that @SecondLady and @realDonaldTrump would put their stamp of approval on an institution that actively targets LGBTQ students. https://t.co/yg94d2m50B
As the president noted, the second lady has championed a program that helps military spouses  while their significant other is serving away from home.
Phyllis Softa
You can flag a comment by clicking its flag icon. Website admin will know that you reported it. Admins may or may not choose to remove the comment or block the author. And please don't worry, your report will be anonymous.
I do not share Karen Pence’s interpretation of the teachings of Jesus. But I do not doubt that she practices what she believes them to be. I admire anyone that uses their religious beliefs to guide THEIR OWN life. The purpose of religion is not to judge others or impose… Read more »
Vote Up0Vote Down 
10 days ago
Latest votes
KhyberRifle on
Phyllis Softa on
Celia Melao on
KhyberRifle on
KhyberRifle on
Our Mission
We are organizing an online community to elevate trusted voices on all sides so you can be fully informed.
About
Forgot password?
Enter your account data and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Username or Email Address
Log in
Privacy Policy
To use social login you have to agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. %privacy_policy%
Or link to existing content
Search
No search term specified. Showing recent items. Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item.
Cancel
