Published
“Sometimes by losing a battle you find a new way to win the war.” – Donald Trump
“You have to think anyway, so why not think big?” – Donald Trump
“Without passion you don’t have energy, without energy you have nothing.” – Donald Trump
“You know the funny thing, I don’t get along with rich people. I get along with the middle class and the poor people better than I get along with the rich people.” – Donald Trump
“In the end, you’re measured not by how much you undertake but by what you finally accomplish.” – Donald Trump
“When somebody challenges you, fight back. Be brutal, be tough.” – Donald Trump
“What separates the winners from the losers is how a person reacts to each new twist of fate.” – Donald Trump
“Anyone who thinks my story is anywhere near over is sadly mistaken.” – Donald Trump
“Experience taught me a few things. One is to listen to your gut, no matter how good something sounds on paper. The second is that you’re generally better off sticking with what you know. And the third is that sometimes your best investments are the ones you don’t make.” – Donald Trump
“Money was never a big motivation for me, except as a way to keep score. The real excitement is playing the game.” – Donald Trump
“If you’re interested in ‘balancing’ work and pleasure, stop trying to balance them. Instead make your work more pleasurable.” – Donald Trump
“The point is that you can’t be too greedy.” – Donald Trump
“I try to learn from the past, but I plan for the future by focusing exclusively on the present. That’s where the fun is.” – Donald Trump
“I have an attention span that’s as long as it has to be.” – Donald Trump
“Sometimes your best investments are the ones you don’t make.” – Donald Trump
“I wasn’t satisfied just to earn a good living. I was looking to make a statement.” – Donald Trump
“A lot of people don’t like to win. They actually don’t know how to win, and they don’t like to win because down deep inside they don’t want to win.” – Donald Trump
“I judge people based on their capability, honesty, and merit.” – Donald Trump
“You learn their honesty, you learn their competitiveness. You learn a lot about a person. It’s not that they have to sink the putt and there’s a great deal of talent involved – but you do learn about how competitive a person is on the golf course, and frankly, how honest.” – Donald Trump
“I always want to think of myself as an underdog.” – Donald Trump
“I’m competitive, and I love to create challenges for myself. Maybe that’s not always a good thing. It can make life complicated.” – Donald Trump
“I’ve been making deals all my life.” – Donald Trump
“The way I run my business seems to be easier than the way I run my life.” – Donald Trump
“If you love what you do, if you love going to the office, if you really like it – not just say it, but really like it – it keeps you young and energized. I really love what I do.” – Donald Trump
“In real life, if I were firing you, I’d tell you what a great job you did, how fantastic you are, and how you can do better someplace else. If somebody steals, that’s different, but generally speaking, you want to let them down as lightly as possible. It’s not a very pleasant thing. I don’t like firing people.” – Donald Trump
Advertisement
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Published
 
Here is a compilation of the most expensive presidential cars in Africa.
1. Egypt
Armored Mercedes Benz S-Class – (Starts at $516,000)
The President of Egypt is usually spotted in a black armored Mercedes-Benz S-Class.
2. Rwanda
Armored Range Rover Sentinel – (Starts at $500,000)
The President of Rwanda often uses a black armored Range Rover Sentinel, escorted by several other vehicles and police motocycles.
3. Namibia
Armored Mercedes-Benz S600Ls – (Starts at $324,060 up to $372,460)
The President of Namibia is often driven in an armored black Mercedes-Benz S600Ls or armored Toyota Land Cruiser 200 Series bearing the presidential seal. He is escorted by a fleet of armored Mercedes- Benz S500Ls, 2-3 unmarked Mercedes Benz E500s, Double cab Toyota Hilux 4.0 v6 cars used by the VIPPD and a fleet of police cars.
Mercedes Pullman – (Starts at $169,595)
The King of Morocco, uses his Mercedes 600 Pullman, while in Morocco. His motorcade, normally comprises of Mercedes-Benz S500, various Lexus models, Range Rover models (when he goes to mountainous places), a BMW 5 Series with a communications jammer, an ambulance and always escorted by police motorcycles.
5. Kenya
Armored Toyota Landcruiser V8 – (Starts at $160,000)
The President of Kenya has several official cars, but he prefers to use an armored Toyota Landcruiser V8 with the Kenyan coat of arms instead of the license plate. Occasionally, he may be spotted in an armored Mercedes Benz Pullman S600 or an armored Range Rover Vogue though in rare cases.
6. Nigeria
Armored Mercedes Benz S-Class 2016 model – (V8 powered starts at $144,00 and V12 S600 starts at $172,000)
The President of Nigeria uses a black armored Mercedes Benz S-Class 2016 model adorned with the Nigerian flag and official party flag. And in other cases, he may be spotted in an armored Toyota Land Cruiser or armored Range Rover. His motorcade comprises of 30 cars and 10 escort motorcycles, along with police cars and 6 Mercedes S-550 of SSS surrounding the president’s car.
7. Uganda
Armored Toyota Land Cruiser 200 – (Starts at $132,500)
The President of Uganda on several occasions uses an armored Toyota Land Cruiser 200, escorted with double cabin pick-up trucks and Mitsubishi Pajero models. Ceremonial cars for Uganda’s presidency include a stretch 600 SEL Mercedes and a white G Wagon.
8. Malawi
Armored Mercedes Benz S560 – (Starts $122,750 and $131,400 for the Cabriolet)
9. South Africa
Armored BMW 7 Series or Mercedes-Benz S-Class – (Starts at $83,100 up to $96,400)
The President of South Africa often uses is an armored BMW 7 Series and occasionally a Mercedes-Benz S-Class. His motorcade comprises several Golf, Jeep Grand Cherokee, BMW 3 series and Mercedes-Benz ML-Class models, followed by a number of Mercedes-Benz V-Class and police cars.
10. Mauritius
Armored BMW 740Li – (Starts at $83,100) and BMW 750Li – (Starts at $96,000)
On daily basis, The Prime Minister of The Republic of Mauritius uses an armored BMW 740Li, escorted by one BMW 5 Series and five police motorcycles. On the other hand, The President of the Republic of Mauritius, is often driven in a BMW 750Li or a Mercedes S600, escorted by a BMW 5 Series and at least two police motorcycles.
Published
 
 
Here is a list of African presidents and prime minister who ascended to political power after their fathers, either by direct succession or years later, in systems of government that are not monarchies.
Ali Bongo Ondimba
President of Gabon
Ali Bongo Ondimba (born Alain Bernard Bongo; 9 February 1959), sometimes known as Ali Bongo, is a Gabonese leader who has been President of Gabon since October 2009. Ali Bongo is the son of Omar Bongo, who was President of Gabon from 1967 until his death in 2009. During his father’s presidency, he was Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1989 to 1991 and represented Bongoville as a Deputy in the National Assembly from 1991 to 1999; subsequently he was Minister of Defense from 1999 to 2009. Following his father’s death after 41 years in power, he was first elected in the August 2009 presidential election. He was re-elected in August 2016, in elections marred by numerous irregularities, arrests, human rights violations and post-election violence. Bongo is also President of the Gabonese Democratic Party.
President of Kenya
Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta (born 26 October 1961) is a Kenyan politician and businessman who is the fourth and current President of the Republic of Kenya, since March 2013. He served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Gatundu South from 2002 to 2013. Currently the party leader and a member of the Jubilee Party of Kenya, he was previously involved with The National Alliance and before that the Kenya African National Union. He is the son of Jomo Kenyatta, who was Kenya’s first President from 1964 until his death in 1978.
Faure Gnassingbé
President of Togo
Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé Eyadéma (born 6 June 1966) is a Togolese politician who has been the President of Togo since 2005. Before assuming the presidency, he was appointed by his father, President Gnassingbé Eyadéma, as Minister of Equipment, Mines, Posts, and Telecommunications, serving from 2003 to 2005. His father ruled Togo from 1967 until his death in 2005. Following President Eyadéma’s death, Gnassingbé was immediately installed as President with support from the army. Doubts regarding the constitutional legitimacy of the succession led to heavy regional pressure being placed on Gnassingbé, and he subsequently resigned on 25 February. He then won a controversial presidential election on 24 April 2005, and was sworn in as President.
Nana Akufo-Addo
President of Ghana
Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo (born William Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo; 29 March 1944) is the President of Ghana, in office since January 2017. He previously served as Attorney General from 2001 to 2003 and as Minister for Foreign Affairs from 2003 to 2007. He was chosen as the NPP’s candidate for a third time in the 2016 elections and defeated Mahama in the first round (winning 53.85% of the votes), which marked the first time in a Ghanaian presidential election that an opposition candidate won a majority outright in the first round. His father, Edward Akufo-Addo, was President of Ghana in the Second Republic from 31 August 1970 until his deposition by coup d’état on 13 January 1972.
Former President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Joseph Kabila Kabange (born 4 June 1971) is a Congolese politician who served as President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo between January 2001 and January 2019. He took office ten days after the assassination of his father, President Laurent-Désiré Kabila. His father was president from May 1997 until his death on January 2001. Joseph Kabila was elected as President in 2006 and re-elected in 2011 for a second term. Since stepping down after the 2018 election, Kabila, as a former president, will be a senator for life.
Ian Khama
Former President of Botswana
Serêtsê Khama Ian Khama (born 27 February 1953) is a Motswana former military officer and retired politician who served as the fourth President of the Republic of Botswana from 1 April 2008 to 1 April 2018. After serving as Commander of the Botswana Defence Force, he entered politics and served as Vice-President of Botswana from 1998 to 2008, then succeeded Festus Mogae as President on 1 April 2008. He won a full term in the 2009 election and was re-elected in October 2014. His father, Sir Seretse Goitsebeng Maphiri Khama, was the first President of Botswana, who served from 1966 until his death in 1980.
Navin Ramgoolam
Former Prime Minister of Mauritius
Navinchandra Ramgoolam (born 14 July 1947) is a Mauritian politician who was Prime Minister of Mauritius from 2005 to 2014 and leader of the Labour Party. He was Leader of the Opposition from 1991 to 1995. He served as Prime Minister for the first time from December 1995 until September 2000, and became Leader of the Opposition again from October 2000 to 4 July 2005. On 5 July 2005, he became prime minister for a second term after his Alliance Sociale won the general elections. He served again as Prime Minister from 2005 to 2014, when he was defeated afterwards. His father, Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, served as the first prime minister of Mauritius from March 1968 to June 1982.
Published
 
Some of the best quotes from Alexander The Great are listed below.
“A tomb now suffices him for whom the whole world was not sufficient.” – Alexander The Great
“Are there no more worlds that I might conquer?” – Alexander The Great
“As for a limit to one’s labors, I, for one, do not recognize any for a high-minded man, except that the labors themselves should lead to noble accomplishments.” – Alexander The Great
“Bury my body and don’t build any monument. Keep my hands out so the people know the one who won the world had nothing in hand when he died.” – Alexander The Great
“Every light is not the sun.” – Alexander The Great
“For my own part, I would rather excel knowledge of the highest secrets of philosophy than in arms.” – Alexander The Great
“How great are the dangers I face to win a good name in Athens.” – Alexander The Great
“I am indebted to my father for living, but to my teacher for living well.” – Alexander The Great
“I am not afraid of an army of lions led by sheep; I am afraid of an army of sheep led by a lion.” – Alexander The Great
“I do not steal victory.” – Alexander The Great
“I had rather excel others in the knowledge of what is excellent, than in the extent of my power and dominion.” – Alexander The Great
“I would rather live a short life of glory than a long one of obscurity.” – Alexander The Great
“In the end, when it’s over, all that matters is what you’ve done.” – Alexander The Great
“Let us conduct ourselves so that all men wish to be our friends and all fear to be our enemies.” – Alexander The Great
“Remember, upon the conduct of each depends the fate of all.” – Alexander The Great
“The end and object of conquest is to avoid doing the same thing as the conquered.” – Alexander The Great
“There is nothing impossible to him who will try.” – Alexander The Great
“There is something noble in hearing myself ill spoken of when I am doing well.” – Alexander The Great
“Through every generation of the human race there has been a constant war, a war with fear. Those who have the courage to conquer it are made free and those who are conquered by it are made to suffer until they have the courage to defeat it, or death takes them.” – Alexander The Great
“Toil and risk are the price of glory, but it is a lovely thing to live with courage and die leaving an everlasting fame.” – Alexander The Great
“True love never has a happy ending, because there is no ending to true love.” – Alexander The Great
“Whatever possession we gain by our sword cannot be sure or lasting, but the love gained by kindness and moderation is certain and durable.” – Alexander The Great
“With the right attitude, self-imposed limitations vanish” – Alexander The Great
“Without Knowledge, Skill cannot be focused. Without Skill, Strength cannot be brought to bear and without Strength, Knowledge may not be applied.” – Alexander The Great
“You shall, I question not, find a way to the top if you diligently seek for it; for nature hath placed nothing so high that is out of the reach of industry and valor.” – Alexander The Great
Editorial Policy
Permission to use quotation from any article is granted subject to full credit of source being given by referencing the direct link of the article on  https://victor-mochere.com
Advertisement
Trending
Add
