Will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy
1 Year for $15
Photo Illustration by Alicia Tatone
By
The Atlanta rapper’s arrest is the latest instance of the mistreatment of a celebrity magnifying the cruelties of a conservative—and, more specifically, Trumpian—America.
On Super Bowl Sunday, news that 21 Savage was apprehended by Immigration and Customs Enforcement for allegedly being in the country illegally broke just before the game began, and proceeded to pinball across the Internet. Initial reports quickly twisted into jokes and memes (He’s British!), which produced scorn and sympathy, and eventually the story popped out the other side as a cause: #Free21Savage.
Not all the facts are in, but we do know this: 21, whose given name is She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, was born in England . He came to America with his family in 2005, at age 7, and is alleged to have overstayed his H-4 visa, which is said to have expired in 2006. Whether or not 21 is in fact illegally in the United States is still unclear. His attorneys are arguing that he has been “continuously physically present in the United States for almost 20 years”; that his visa application is pending; and that he “is not subject to mandatory detention under federal law and is eligible for bond.” The legal battle will be adjudicated in the coming weeks. The bigger question, as of now, is why? Why him? And why now?
The arrest came just days after 21 performed alongside fellow Atlanta rappers at Super Bowl Music Fest , and to take him just as his city was reaching the climax of its weekend festivities is itself harsh. (It was also the start of Black History Month.) But another performance the previous week may have been more consequential—and, at the very least, provides more to read into. Appearing on The Tonight Show on Monday, January 28 , 21 gave a weighty rendition of his recent single “A Lot,” in which he criticizes ICE. As Brianna Younger noted for The New Yorker , in this context “the detention appeared especially vindictive, part of a long history of the authorities using hip-hop lyrics to indict, profile, or otherwise harass artists.” Was 21’s arrest meant to send a message that no one who is brown or black is safe? Or that there are consequences to speaking truth to power?
Perhaps 21 would have been arrested even if he were not a rapper. And perhaps he would have been arrested even if he were not black. But recent studies have shown that black immigrants make up an outsize portion of deportation cases, and are more likely to be targeted by authorities .  His arrest, at the very least, highlights the bias within the system.
And the indignities don’t stop there. According to reports from Rolling Stone , 21 is being held in Georgia’s Irwin County Detention Center, which is notorious for…just about everything. Project South, a southern social-justice group, found that Irwin detainees “do not have sufficient access to adequate legal materials and visitations with their attorneys are impermissibly impaired.” They also “almost unanimously reported finding objects in the food, being forced to eat rancid foods, and needing to supplement their diets by purchasing food at the commissary.” In order to be seen by medical staff, detained immigrants “must make a 4 a.m. sick call.” When detainees attempted to go on a hunger strike to demand access to their immigration officers, they were thrown into solitary confinement. And perhaps unsurprisingly, reports of sexual abuse are said to be ignored. In what world does it seem just to subject people searching for a better life to these sorts of conditions?
Mistreatment of detainees, of course, predates this administration. But the president has proudly owned the petty and punitive war on immigrants, valuing it above even a functioning government. If 21’s arrest hung over Sunday’s Super Bowl like a pall, it provided a backdrop to Tuesday’s State of the Union. A focal point of Donald Trump’s speech, as in every one of his speeches, was that America is in the midst of an immigration crisis and that it needs a wall for protection. “WALLS WORK and WALLS SAVE LIVES,” he said in his throatiest steak-hawking voice . For those looking, 21 was there in subtext. His upwardly mobile story is so American it could be a Horatio Alger novel. That immigration-enforcement agents have spent time apprehending him undermines both the notion that there is an immigration crisis at all, and that the purpose of a wall is safety. This is not a war on crime; it is a war on identity.
Jay-Z may have said it best in a Facebook post on Tuesday, calling 21’s detainment “an absolute travesty.” Beyond the post, Jay-Z hired a lawyer to work on 21’s case. His involvement, along with his use of the hashtag #Free21Savage in his post, brought to mind Meek Mill , whom Hov also helped through incarceration. Both 21 Savage and Meek Mill are black rappers whose punishments didn’t fit their crimes—Meek was given a two-to-four-year prison sentence for a series of parole violations that stemmed from an initial charge of riding recklessly on a motorcycle (he was ultimately granted bail and early release, in part thanks to public blowback)—and as with Meek, 21’s high profile is helping to expose the bias, triviality, and callousness of the American justice system. If 21’s arrest was meant to send a message that no one is free from the tyranny of a broken immigration system, it may well backfire by shining a light on the tyranny itself. The power of celebrity works both ways.
Magazine
Subscribe now and get a FREE weekender bag and the GQ Style Guide.
Find GQ.com Around the World
© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.
Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18). Your California Privacy Rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
