Posted on
Former ESPN commentator Jemele Hill has called for New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to assassinate President Donald Trump[.
She presumably made the statement in a joking fashion but it is an abhorrent thing to say about any president.
Hill, who now writes for the progressive publication The Atlantic made the comment a comedian said Ocasio-Cortez should interrupt the State of the Union, Fox News reported .
Former ESPN host Jemele Hill deleted a tweet in which, describing what a Democratic lawmaker should say at President Trump’s State of the Union address, she jokingly referenced a phrase uttered by an assassin before Malcolm X was gunned down in 1965.
It all started when Showtime’s Desus Nice tweeted that he would like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., to interrupt Trump’s speech by yelling, “Whose mans is this?”
Hill, who famously called Trump a “white supremacist” in 2017 before her exit from ESPN, is now a writer for The Atlantic. She responded to Nice with her own vision of what the freshman lawmaker should shout.
“Nah, she gotta yell: GETCHO HAND OUT MY POCKET,” Hill tweeted.
While not everyone picked up on Hill’s comment, some history buffs realized it was a reference to assassination.
Should she get visited by the Secret Service?
“That statement is a reference to what one of Malcolm X’s assassins yelled out before they killed the 1960s civil rights leader,” NewsBusters’ deputy research director Geoffrey Dickens wrote.
Hill deleted the tweet after NewsBusters and other critics put a spotlight on it, but the media watchdog site published an image of the anti-Trump message.
The Atlantic did not immediately respond when asked for comment.
“The joke here is that AOC should have participated in the assassination of the president,” Free Beacon reporter Alex Griswold tweeted.
The joke here is that AOC should have participated in the assassination of the president https://t.co/p6YQiiLdLe
So Jemele Hill has moved on from calling the president a white supremacist to now rooting for him to be assassinated during the state of the union. Yikes. https://t.co/XwZwIwXfRG
The Atlantic‘s Blue Check-Marked Jemele Hill Alludes to Assassination During SOTU https://t.co/epNhodF4RE via @BreitbartNews
Be better Jemele.  Joking about a president getting shot in cold blood is wrong and inappropriate in any form, whether it be President Obama, or President Trump.
Just when you think @jemelehill can’t get any more racist and disgusting.. .this… @jack ? @Jack ? https://t.co/CcE0i90nfj
Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers’ newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
