18001 Collins Avenue, Sunny Isles Beach, FL 33160, United States of America
This property is 2 minutes walk from the beach. This oceanfront resort, situated on the beaches of Sunny Isles, is 10 minutes' drive to Aventura Mall. It boasts private beach access, a luxury spa, a gourmet restaurant, and rooms with views.
Rooms at Trump International Beach Resort feature a private balcony and 42-inch flat-screen TV. Every room includes a microwave, seating area, and marble bathroom with bathrobes.
Trump Beach Resort offers both a lap pool and a pool with hot tubs and waterfalls. Aquanox Spa provides massages and body and beauty treatments. The hotel’s Planet Kids Program has supervised activities.
Guests can enjoy gourmet dining at Neomi's which serves contemporary American cuisine and happy hour specials. Fresh sushi is served at the Sushi Lounge and Restaurant.
Gulfstream Park Race Track is only 10 minutes' drive from International Trump Beach Resort. Guests can swim with dolphins at Miami Seaquarium, which is 30 minutes' drive away.
This is our guests' favorite part of Sunny Isles Beach, according to independent reviews.
We speak your language!
Trump International Beach Resort has been welcoming Booking.com guests since Mar 1, 2010
Hotel Rooms : 360 ,  Hotel Chain : The Leading Hotels of the World
Most Popular Facilities 
Lock in a great price for your upcoming stay
Get instant confirmation with FREE cancellation on most rooms! 
Good to Know
Cancellation/prepayment
Cancellation and prepayment policies vary according to room type. Please enter the dates of your stay and check what conditions apply to your preferred room.
Children and Extra Beds
All children are welcome.
Free! One child under 2 years stays free of charge in a crib.
The maximum number of extra beds/cribs in a room is 1.
Pets
Groups
When booking more than 5 rooms, different policies and additional supplements may apply.
The Fine Print
- USD 16.72 per child
- USD 33.44 per adult
If credit card used upon reservation does not match name on the reservation, contact hotel to provide a credit card authorisation.
Extra beds are available on request and charges are applicable. Please contact the hotel prior to arrival for further details using the information found on the booking confirmation.
Please note that outside food and beverages/coolers are prohibited on the hotel's beach and pool decks.
Guests under the age of 21 are only allowed to check in with a parent or official guardian.
Please note guest package policy: charges apply for storing guest packages. Packages are accepted for registered guests only within 10 days of the check-in date. Packages only up to 18 x 18 x 12 inches are accepted.
Prior to shipping items to the hotel, please contact Trump International Beach Resort as shipping fees/restrictions may apply. Contact details are available on your booking confirmation.
The Resort Fee includes access to:
- Wired and wireless internet for up to 8 devices
- Aquanox Spa access
- Fitness centre access
- Local phone calls for up to 20 minutes per day
- Lounge chairs
- Pool and beach attendant gratuities
- Scheduled house car service to Aventura Mall, Bal Harbour Shops, and Dezer Car Museum (based on availability)
- Daily access to Planet Kid's Club (Children Ages 4 to 12)
Guests are required to show a photo ID and credit card upon check-in. Please note that all Special Requests are subject to availability and additional charges may apply.
Labels
Blogs:
