The source for the Fusion GPS dossier has been revealed for being a corrupt Ukrainian official. The Daily Caller reports:
A member of the Ukrainian parliament accused in his home country of interfering in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was identified in congressional testimony in October as a source for opposition research firm Fusion GPS.
Nellie Ohr, a former contractor for the Washington, D.C.-based Fusion GPS, testified on Oct. 19 that Serhiy Leshchenko, a former investigative journalist turned Ukrainian lawmaker, was a source for Fusion GPS during the 2016 campaign.
“I recall … they were mentioning someone named Serhiy Leshchenko, a Ukrainian,” Ohr said when asked who Fusion GPS’s sources were, according to portions of Ohr’s testimony confirmed by The Daily Caller News Foundation.
Ohr, whose husband is  Justice Department official Bruce Ohr , testified that she was not aware of Leshchenko’s source information, but that she knew he was providing information to Fusion GPS, where she worked between late 2015 and the 2016 election.
Although the Russian angle of foreign influence in the American process has been amply investigated, there remains many questions as to the extent of Ukrainian and British involvement in the Hillary campaign.
N February 10, 2019
Deep State traitors are everywhere!The evil corrupted liberal demoncrat Commie Nazi’s party at work here!Don’t forget the RINOs(Grahams,Romney,Gowdy,Ryan, Rubio, Sessions, McConnell, Flake, etc)they’re just as bad! Drain the rat infested Swamp,Pres Trump!
Dee February 10, 2019
And mueller would have been corresponding with hitlery on unsecure server during the uranium one deal . Heard that on cable and it makes sense ! We know mueller is pro hitlery !
The entire investigation has been based on a fraud.
Richard February 8, 2019
She is so crooked that they are going to have to screw her into the ground.
Robert February 7, 2019
When most of the things in the Dossier have now been proven to be correct what difference does it make where the information come from.
tracker February 7, 2019
NOTHING in that dossier has proven to be correct. Stop deluding yourself
You idiot; where do you think all those indictments came from?
Paul Aldredge February 9, 2019
If you’d bother to just Google it, you’d see Christopher Steele, author of the fake dossier, admitted in British court that he was hired by Hillary Clinton to provide documents to cast doubt on President Trump’s victory. Look it up! Tons of articles.
jason February 9, 2019
The indictments are the result of picking a target and digging until they found something unrelated to and predating the  campaign as much as a decade before Trump even started running. Beyond that, Mueller & his crew of democrat party insider assassins could target you, learn that you farted in church once, and find some obscure unrelated EPA reg (or have one created) then prosecute you for releasing toxic waste or greenhouse gasses in a populated area.
Ever make a mistake on your taxes? have receipts for all charitable contributions? Once the IRS starts digging into you they can go back as far as they want, despite the fact that you’re only required to retain records for the previous seven years. If you made more than $600 mowing someone’s (one person) lawn when you were a child, and they did not give you a 1099-MISC, you and they can be persecuted by our current asinine standards.
“Give me the man and I will find a crime” is what’s been happening, and it’s wrong.
Jo Radith February 10, 2019
ALL the indictments are for tax fraud (in 2006) and “process crimes”– telling to different things to authorities in some form. They have nothing to do with collusion.  It’s because they said something slightly differently in one testimony, designed to catch them. All these “crimes” have happened SINCE Mueller started the faux investigation about Russian collusion.  The only collusion is by the Clinton campaign.  And notice: they have nothing to do with Trump.  Where are all the “bombshells” gone?  Yet, you fell for every one!
Try again.
Speedle February 10, 2019
Dummy, there have not been and will not be any indictments of Trump.  Man, get a life.  And if you can’t do that learn to think a little critically.
Dee February 7, 2019
What is wrong with you ? Are you even paying attention to the Facts that have been exposed ? Maybe you should try listening to the Real news and not the Fake mainstream crap !
On whatever issue, before you choose,
Be sure the source isn’t “Mainstream News.”
Agenda driven, although it denies,
Mainstream News is a fount of lies.
Dean February 7, 2019
You have the same old Socialist/Communist reply to all the unfounded accusations against Trump. Your group believes that if you tell an untruth often enough it becomes truth! Get you head out of your a**, show the evidence!
D. Richard Tonge February 7, 2019
It is the same theory, but it’s the Republicans who lie repeatedly and hope the Fake News sticks. Try looking into the Fact Checkers.
Rocketman February 7, 2019
I trust your fact checkers about as far as I can throw them!
Pam February 7, 2019
If you’d like truth check the facts yourself.  Take one single topic and dig in.  From science to history to politics and don’t forget education, you will soon see that the only good fact checker is you.  Never fear, we will be here when your ready with more questions.  The future is bright when we shine the light.
Paul Aldredge February 9, 2019
Fact checkers keeps slanting everything. Google about Christopher Steele, author of the fake dossier, admitted in British court Hillary hired him to help cast doubt on President Trump’s victory! Look it up before proclaiming something that is false.
Victoria February 7, 2019
It’s important to know where the information came from because we want to know if the interference was Global or local. Was just Hillary and the Democrats involved or was George Soros and his NWO order involved. We know George is financing a lot of the Democratic causes including the new Democratic army, Antifa. . So–was George interfering with the election or was it just the Russians or was it just the Democrats. It seems like everybody was interfering with the 2016 election
D. Richard Tonge February 7, 2019
How about all those meetings with Russians. Do you still think they discussed adoptions? Yes, the interference was global. It was the Russians.
Paul Aldredge February 9, 2019
The meeting? Aren’t you keeping up? It was set up by Hillary! Good Lord! Keep up! Just Google it instead of parroting the lies of the DNC!
Rick February 10, 2019
Just in your little mind. How did you come up with that BULLSHIT.  FAKE NEWS STRIKES AGAIN
Bhr February 10, 2019
Rick February 10, 2019
Just in your little mind. How did you come up with that BULLSHIT.  FAKE NEWS STRIKES AGAIN
Hillary needs to go to jail!
Paul Aldredge February 9, 2019
As if you still don’t realize Comey let off! He lied to Congress, PROVEN, (look it up!), and even Director Wray admitted the FBI treated Hillary far different than others. The only reason nothing happened yet, is because she is being protected! She hired Christopher Steele, author of the fake dossier, too! He admitted it in British court! Look it up and quit spreading false stories!
alan kingsbury February 7, 2019
How many crimes does Hillary need to commit before she is arrested 5,10, 15 ??? Hillary you belong in Federal Prison for all your crimes: Using an illegal server, to send classified information, erasing emails, destroying mobile devices, Bleach Biting your server, using your Secretary of State position for personal gain, taking millions from foreign oligarchs in exchange for political favors, operating a Pay-to-Play enterprise known as the “Clinton Foundation” and your failure to answer 200 phone calls to send backup to the four Americans killed in Benghazi and you saying “At this point, what difference does it make”.  And your most recent crimes: selling 20% of America’s Uranium to Russia and financing the Fake Trump Dossier. Let’s not forget all your other crimes from Arkansas to the present” Trooper Gate, Whitewater, File Gate, Water Gate, Looter Gate, Cattle Gate, China Gate etc. After leaving the White House, Hillary was forced to return an estimated $200,000 in White House furniture, china, and artwork that she had stolen. She repeated stealing furniture and other items when she left her Secretary of State position. Also, $6 Billion went missing from the State Department during her tenure. We have a Two-tier Justice System – One for Hillary and the Elites, and the other for the rest of us
CLINTONS OBAMAS DOJ  FBI DEMORATS & ALL OTHER GOV CROOKS
JUST  BOGAS INVESTAGATIONS & IN JUSTICES ON TO THE GOOD PEOPLE OF AMERICA
Brenda February 7, 2019
What is wrong with this government is there anyone doing anything to stop this corruption.
Victoria February 7, 2019
The Clintons, like Obama spent years gathering up dossiers on so many of the higher ups in the swamp that no one has the nerve to expose them. Until the swamp is drained of politicians from both sides of the isle and they are exposed for their criminal actions, these cat and mouse games will continue.  Give government control back to the states. It won’t stop all the crime but at least the crimes will be smaller and easier to trace. Now the crooks are hiding in the giant labyrinths of the halls of congress.
Please cite your source> I bet you made this up.
You sir are proof that you can’t fix stupid
Hillary for POTUS
Magoo February 7, 2019
That would be horrible.  She is as crooked as a black snake.
