Italians love Trump: Italy flaunts emperor float adorned in golden armor and a killer nickname
Italians love Trump: Italy flaunts emperor float adorned in golden armor and a killer nickname
The Italians appear to love themselves some President Donald Trump.
Since 1873, they’ve held an annual carnival in the city of Viareggio wherein they’ve used floats and masks made of paper mache pulp to depict caricatures of notable people, places, events, etc.
And it just so happens that among this year’s most notable “allegorical machines,” as the Italians describe their lavish floats, has been the president of the United States.
Look:
Featured in the clip above from this year’s Viareggio Carnival is a giant caricature of the U.S. president adorned in golden armor and wielding a “yuge” Twitter sword.
Trump’s supporters here in the states have dubbed this caricature “God Emperor Trump” because of its uncanny resemblance to the “God-Emperor of Mankind,” a character in the popular tabletop fantasy wargame Warhammer 40,000.
“The Emperor of Mankind is the immortal Perpetual who serves as the ruling monarch of the Imperium of Man, and is described by the Imperial Ecclesiarchy and the Imperial Cult as the Father, Guardian and God of humanity,” a Wikia fan page notes .
And this “Father, Guardian and God of humanity” looks just like the Italians’ caricature of Trump.
Look:
No; there are those who follow the God-Emperor of Mankind and there are heretics. @ThatJCStoneking @HashtagShenani pic.twitter.com/MqCL8sncMT
Meanwhile in Italy pic.twitter.com/U5h9zCTo17
Me: Don’t let your memes be dreams
God Emperor Trump is here to make Roma great again pic.twitter.com/7e9pbYerub
Coincidence or conspiracy?
The videos and photos featured above were recorded Saturday. According to the carnival’s official website, additional celebrations will be held Feb. 17, Feb. 23, March 3 and March 5.
“Every evening, there are carnival celebrations in all of the city’s different districts. The most famous bars, restaurants, discos, etc., including the largest hotels in Versilia, host colourful all night masked carnival parties,” the website notes .
“[T]he allegorical papier-maché floats are the product of the unequaled creativity, of the extraordinary sculpture and painting skill of Viareggio’s ‘magicians’, and are the highest example of this popular art whose language has spread all over the world.”
“The parades take place in a ring-like circuit 2 kms. long, on the seaside avenue of Viareggio, best known as La Passeggiata. Here the floats move among the spectators, who can attend the show with no barriers, becoming, in turn, the protagonists of the parade.”
While it remains unclear whether the resemblance between the float pictured above and the “God Emperor” means anything, what’s known is that the European nation’s citizens reportedly view Trump positively, which is no surprise given his similarities to their own leader, Italian President Matteo Salvini.
In fact, many in the media have argued that of all of Europe’s leaders, Salvini is the one most like the American president, in part because of his “Italians first” rhetoric.
The media hate Salvini, of course, and have dubbed him “far right” for having the apparent audacity to prioritize his citizens’ interests by, as an example,  deporting refugees and illegal immigrants .
Listen to how the media describe his “populist” policies below:
To be clear, just like in the United States, not every Italian likes Salvini. And similarly, not every Italian appreciates his U.S. counterpart’s tough but sensible approach to the issues.
Flashback to 2017, for instance, when a left-wing artist who participated in the Viareggio Carnival created a horrifying float that featured the Statue of Liberty surfing on Trump’s head as a cowboy fired his gun at Mexicans and Muslims.
“In the America that has elected Donald Trump as the next president of the United States, there are those who are fighting in defense of the constitutional law for the right to bear arms,” the float’s description reportedly read .
“The consequences, however, are clear when one looks at the long list of crimes or of domestic accidents caused by the use of guns and rifles. Just as if we were in a modern saloon of the wild west, in the artists’ view Donald Trump is the symbol of all this.”
See the insane float below:
Thankfully, most Italians are not deranged, as noted by social media:
My friend lives in Italy and she has said many times, that the Italians LOVE Trump!! ❤️
yes my birth country LOVES TRUMP, Italians know who and how to love and appreciate someone that is a WARRIOR FOR HIS COUNTRY!
Research Salvini and what he has to say about President Trump.
This is not a slam, this is praise for President Trump, the Italians love him!
Hi from Italy. You’re not an Italian and will never be, Mister Mayor.
We Italians have a hero called Salvini who is saving Europe from the African invasion caused by the destabilization of Libya.
And Salvini LOVES Trump . We all do here in Italy, dear leftist loser
I have heard how many Italians support and love Trump! A small town erected a marble statue of Trump..so sweet. Hear there is a Trump fan club too! I hate what Renzi did to Italy!!!
I was over there recently .. The Italians love Trump…
This is absolutely untrue. I live in Italy and while they think he tweets too much, the Italians love his policy. I traveled to Egypt for Christmas and our college educated guide stated that Trump is harsh, but tells it like it is. Please don’t generalize all of Europe.
I am from Nola and we love Trump can’t get enough of him and @flotus . Especially the Italians! So don’t speak for all of Nola
Your email
Recipient email
