Search
Haaretz
 
Close
U.S. President Donald Trump  and his eldest son have both taken quick note of Elizabeth Warren’s presidential candidacy and are sharply criticizing the Massachusetts Democrat, citing her past claims to Native American heritage.
Trump tweeted on Saturday night, "Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!"
Many critics interpreted Trump's putting "TRAIL" in all caps as a reference to the "Trail of Tears," Andrew Jackson's forced removal of Native Americans from ancestral lands onto reservations during the 1800s.
If the reference wasn't clear enough, Donald Trump Jr. decided to add his own racial take. Trump Jr. reposted his father's tweet to Instagram with the caption, "Savage!!! Love my president." Trump Jr.'s repost included a reply from a Twitter user who retorted: "The Native American genocide continues with another murder by the president."
skip                             - 4
Feb 9, 2019 at 3:44pm PST
Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale added in a statement that Warren has been “exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected.”
Warren’s entry into the 2020 race on Saturday comes after she had apologized for claiming Native American identity on multiple occasions early in her career. It’s a claim that has created fodder for Republicans and could overshadow her campaign.
Parscale says voters “will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas” that, he says, “will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle class.”
Stay up to date: Sign up to our newsletter
Email *
Sign up
Please wait…
We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting.
Send
Close
Email *
Close
Send me email alerts
Want to enjoy 'Zen' reading - with no ads and just the article?                 Subscribe today
Add a comment
Comment
Send
Cancel
Thank you!
Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in                                     accordance with site policy.
If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,          please fill in your email address in the form below.
Email *
1 comments
11 comments
7 comments
15 comments
15
Promoted content
1
3 comments
13 comments
13
2 comments
2
4 comments
4
3 comments
3
9 comments
All the latest Middle East news, straight to your inbox
Email *
Please enter your email
Sign up
I'd like to receive emails on offers, appeals and commercial info
Please wait…
We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting.
© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved
close
