FOREIGN Money has been influencing voters across England in the UK Local Elections with George Soros funded HOPE Not Hate campaigning in support of the Labour party.
The group has been using sponsored social media posts and leaflet drops with serious questions being raised about the interference of foreign money in British elections.
https://twitter.com/hopenothate/status/992289037418299392
Hope Not Hate took some serious Reddies from BILLIONAIRE globalist banker George Soros with an income of nearly HALF a million pounds in 2016.
Hope Not Hate has been backing leftist parties such as Labour, Lib Dems and The Green Party whilst mocking UKIP and the Tories.
According to Breitbart London, the group worked directly with Labour Party activists to target a UKIP candidate.
They also funded targeted Facebook advertising campaigns against UKIP MEP and councillor for the Sedgely borough of Dudley, Bill Etheridge.
https://twitter.com/hopenothate/status/992109033732501504
“We’re going to have a big campaign going on around Bill Etheridge. We’ve got some belting leaflets that are really funny but are also very true,” announced Joe Mulhall, a senior researcher at HNH, on the group’s podcast on the 27th of April.
“HOPE Not Hate is running a very targeting local campaign to oust him from Dudley Council… we don’t think that someone with his sort of values belongs on a local council,” he added.
 
 
 
Comment Below.   CAN YOU HELP US REPORT MORE UNREPORTED NEWS?
Comments
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Post navigation
 
15.1k Shares
10.8k Shares
8.8k Shares
7.5k Shares
 
7k Shares
6.8k Shares
 
6.1k Shares
5.6k Shares
4.8k Shares
4.5k Shares
We are one of the UK’s hottest independent news outlets read by more than 500,000 people a month, we are a populist working-class news website launched in April 2017, we have seen our readership grow on a record scale thanks to the power of social media and our content has been seen by over 3 MILLION people.
Most Read
Popular Tags
To Top
Politicalite uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out. Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
1 Click on the AdBlock Plus icon on the top right corner of your browser
2 Click on "Enabled on this site" from the AdBlock Plus option
3 Refresh the page and start browsing the site
Like Politicalite On Facebook
Like and Follow us on Facebook for more of The Unreported News
