10:12 AM 02/08/2019 | Politics
share on facebook
Message
Send
WhatsApp
President Donald Trump criticized California Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff for “spending time” with Fusion GPS Co-Founder Glenn Simpson at July’s Aspen security conference in a tweet Friday.
Now we find out that Adam Schiff was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion, who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff. John Solomon of @thehill
“Now, we find out that Adam Schiff was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion [sic], who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff,” Trump wrote on Twitter Friday, referencing a Thursday column in The Hill by John Solomon.
Solomon wrote:
[Photos] show Schiff meeting at the event with Fusion GPS Founder Glenn Simpson, one of the key and most controversial figures in the Russia collusion scandal. Both men insisted to me through spokesmen that they met only briefly last July.
At the time of the encounter, Simpson was an important witness in the House Intelligence Committee probe who had given sworn testimony about alleged, but still unproven, collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.
Simpson, through his research firm based in Washington, D.C., employed Christopher Steele, who authored a salacious dossier “best known for the vast conspiracy it alleges between the Trump campaign and Russian government during the run-up to the 2016 election,” reported The Daily Caller News Foundation’s Chuck Ross on the two-year anniversary of the dossier’s publication.
Trump launched a flurry of tweets about Russian collusion allegations Friday morning.
Fusion GPS Co-Founder Glenn Simpson listens as his lawyer, Joshua Levy, speaks to members of the media following a meeting with members of the House Judiciary and Oversight Committee in the Rayburn Office Building on Capitol Hill on October 16, 2018 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Zach Gibson/Getty Images)
“The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between ‘Trump’ & Russia,” Trump wrote on Twitter Friday morning.
The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between “Trump” & Russia….
“It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest [and] report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!” he continued .
…It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!
Trump had touted Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Sen. Richard Burr’s Thursday statement that there was no evidence of Russian collusion on Twitter Thursday night and again Friday .
“If we write a report based upon the facts that we have, then we don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia,” Burr said .
“Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two-year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion. … Thank you!” Trump wrote Friday.
Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion. “We don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.” Thank you!
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org .
Message
Send
WhatsApp
Search
Trending
