Sign In
I’ve been a speechwriter for more than 50 years, so I watched it from a more detached perspective: how did his writers do and how did he deliver it. Because of his previous public utterances, there’s a pretty low bar for success in a Trump speech. At his rallies, it’s as if he has a panel of buttons to push, and he just plays whack-a-mole with them, basking in the adoration of people who want to have their buttons pushed. In his more formal statements he’s deemed successful if he doesn’t wander off script into his usual word-salad. Most people have quit remarking on his logical lapses and freedom from facts.
That said, I had the following thoughts on the SOTU:
The writers did a pretty good job on the first part. The country wanted hear about unity and healing, and they provided it. Trump’s delivery, full of pauses and posturing, could have been a lot better. At the end of almost every statement, he lifted his chin, turned from left to right, and seemed to wait for the applause. Sometimes he got it. Sometimes he didn’t.
He needed more rehearsal on the cadence lines, where he’s creating parallels. He didn’t punch any of them except the one about partisan investigations.
His writers dropped the ball on the immigration section, especially where they used El Paso as a poster child. It’s not good to lie in a speech. It’s awful to tell a lie that 15 seconds on Google will disprove. And it’s even more awful to make the biggest piece of evidence for your major point on a lie. Given the amount of time and detail he devoted to it, it became obvious that this was a speech about the wall. Infrastructure got one sentence and an abrupt transition. Education got about the same and included a dog whistle to the Charter School crowd. Healthcare got about the same, except that he included the Republican’s repeal of the individual mandate penalty. He spouted his rally lines about the treaties.
You shouldn’t say things in a speech that make you look dumb. A lot of people probably noted the times when he went from the script to some sort of grade school language (“really, really bad”), but the one that got me was the flat statement that if he had not been elected president we would be at war with North Korea now. So far, according to the intelligence people, North Korea hasn’t stopped its nuclear programs. What it has done is been brought to the world stage by Trump.
In the 18 political campaigns I wrote for, some politicians were good at staying on script, some found it impossible, and most were somewhere in the middle, starting off delivering the speech as rehearsed then feeding off the crowd and going somewhere other than where the script was to take them. Trump, I think, fell into the last group. But I think after the first 10 minutes or so of the speech, the writers probably lost most or all of the arguments.
Lives in Atlanta, GA
