your username
your password
By
USA TODAY
Sen. Elizabeth Warren formally announced her candidacy for the White House on Saturday, and hours later President Donald Trump weighed in on his newest campaign opponent, appearing to make a joke with reference to the Trail of Tears.
Soon after the Massachusetts senator’s campaign announcement, Trump tweeted:
“Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he wrote on Twitter. “Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!”
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
The president’s use of the word trail in all caps is a potential reference to the Trail of Tears, the forced relocation of Native Americans from their homelands in the Southern United States to reservations in Oklahoma in the 1800s.
Thousands of Native Americans died during the event.
Andrew Jackson was the president who signed the Indian Removal Act into law in 1830. Trump picked a portrait of Jackson for Oval Office in 2017.
This isn’t the first time Trump mocked Warren about her claims of Native American ancestry in a tweet.
In January, after Warren posted a video on Instagram saying that she was forming an exploratory committee for a presidential run, Trump tweeted:
“If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!”
Warren apologized on Wednesday for “not having been more sensitive about tribal citizenship” after The Washington Post published a 1986 Texas bar registration card where she listed her race as “American Indian.”
It was at least the third time in a week that Warren has apologized for her past self-identification. 
Follow Dalvin Brown on Twitter: @Dalvin_Brown
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
- Advertisement -
MOST POPULAR
February 2, 2019
EDITOR PICKS
POPULAR POSTS
"trendynewsupdate.com" is one of the lucrative news, entertainment, trend fashion based website. We provide you with the latest breaking news and videos as your trusted partner that helps enrich your knowledge.
MORE STORIES
