Overnight News Summaries ,
AFRICA: Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), Vera Songwe,  urged concerted efforts to help refugees and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) across the Africa.
AMERICAS: Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro rejected a document issued a day earlier in Montevideo, Uruguay, by the International Contact Group on Venezuela.
ASIA: Major obstacles remain before the first concrete steps can be taken to end the war in Afghanistan, a top U.S. envoy said after months of talks with the Taliban.
EUROPE: Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar on Friday said he believed “a deal can be done” to avoid a disorderly British exit from the EU, after a meeting with a key ally of British Prime Minister Theresa May that he said went very well.
MIDDLE EAST: The meeting between representatives of the Yemeni government and the Shia Houthi rebels on exchange of prisoners of war has concluded in the capital of Jordan without any concrete announcements.
TECHNOLOGY: Pakistani authorities have detained a rights activist who led a protest and a journalist who allegedly criticized state agencies on traditional and social media.
TOP STORY
 
After announcing during the State of the Union Address that the summit will take place February 27-28 and be in Vietnam it was not until late Friday President Trump announced the location will be Hanoi.
This announcement comes after the US envoy for North Korea Stephen Biegun finished his trip where he visited both South and North Korea; he visited South Korea before and after he visited North Korea.
On Twitter President Trump stated, “My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second Summit with Kim Jong Un,”
Special Representative Stephen Biegun told the media, “I am confident that if both sides stay committed, we can make real progress,”
 
Regional: Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), Vera Songwe,  urged concerted efforts to help refugees and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) across the Africa. ( Xinhua )
Cameroon: The Ministry of External Relations denied allegations that its army is using U.S. military assistance to carry out human rights violations. ( Xinhua )
Nigeria: The main presidential hopefuls court voters in two key cities, as election campaigning reaches its climax with one week to go before the ballot. ( AFP )
 
 
Regional: Venezuela President Nicolás Maduro, speaking at a news conference, lashed out at U.S.-led plans to deliver humanitarian aid after the first cargo trucks with food and medical supplies arrived at the Colombian border. ( WSJ )
Regional: Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro rejected a document issued a day earlier in Montevideo, Uruguay, by the International Contact Group on Venezuela. ( Xinhua )
 
 
Regional: The Emperor should hold hands with women who were forced to work in Japan’s military brothels and make a personal apology if Tokyo wants to end the decades-old dispute, South Korea’s top lawmaker said. ( Japan Times )
Afghanistan: Major obstacles remain before the first concrete steps can be taken to end the war in Afghanistan, a top U.S. envoy said after months of talks with the Taliban. ( WSJ )
India: The country could lose a vital U.S. trade concession, under which it enjoys zero tariffs on $5.6 billion of exports to the United States, amid a widening dispute over its trade and investment policies, people with close knowledge of the matter said.
 
 
Regional: Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar on Friday said he believed “a deal can be done” to avoid a disorderly British exit from the EU, after a meeting with a key ally of British Prime Minister Theresa May that he said went very well. ( Reuters )
Regional: Greece’s prime minister hailed North Macedonia as a “friendly” partner and called on it to join efforts to establish “safety, stability, and cooperation” in the Balkan region after his parliament approved a measure for it to join the NATO alliance. ( RFE )
 
 
Regional: A Palestinian suspected of having killed a young Israeli woman has been arrested in a raid in the West Bank city of Ramallah. ( AFP )
Regional: An official with the Iraqi government-sanctioned umbrella of mainly Shiite paramilitary groups says a militia commander was arrested after he criticized Iran’s influence in the country. ( AP )
Syria: A UN aid group warned that the humanitarian situation is “quite dire” at a desert refugee camp where thousands of people are stranded. ( DPA )
 
 
 
Movement: SE at 15 mph
Wind: 70 mph
Movement: ESE at 19 mph
Wind: 130 mph
Deaths as of 06FEB19: 492 (DR Congo)
Eritrea: Fenkil Day – 1990
END
