World Affairs
Iran’s Ayatollah Says ‘Death To America’; References Trump, Bolton and Pompeo
Iran has been shouting death to America for years including when Obama sent them billions of dollars on pallets
Ayatollah Khamenei, Iran’s Supreme Leader, called out Pres. Trump, John Bolton and Mike Pompeo in a speech to one of his huge weekly packed crowds. He told those in attendance that when he says ‘Death To America,’ he means to those three American leaders.
Burning American flags, taking hostages, abusing and imprisoning people, shouting Death to America, Death to Israel, Funding Radical Islamic Terrorism, and they are the victims? Get out of here with that mess.
“ Death to America’ means death to Trump and John Bolton and Pompeo,” the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said, referring to John R. Bolton, the president’s national security adviser, and Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state. “It means death to American leaders, who happen to be these people at this time,” he added.
Ayatollah Khamenei has reflected on the phrase repeatedly as Iran prepares to commemorate the 40th anniversary of its Islamic revolution, and engages in an increasingly bitter standoff with the Trump administration. The United States has withdrawn from  a nuclear accord with Iran , reimposed economic sanctions on the country, and stepped up measures designed to pressure and perhaps to change its leadership.
“Death to America” would remain part of Iran’s official discourse, Ayatollah Khamenei’s website, Khamenei.ir, quoted him as saying on Monday, until the United States changed its “evil and mean” ways.
More from Wayne Dupree
Should we expect anything other than death threats to the United States from the terrorism Capitol of the Middle East? Barack Obama paid them millions and they hated him too. Now that Trump is the President, the flow of cash has come to a screeching halt, so of course, they hate him.
For some reason, these people forgot Pres. Trump dropped the Mother Of All Bombs on Afghanistan during his first few months in office. Don’t they realize that Pres. Trump could wipe them off of the map in about five minutes?
Advertisement
If you find inaccurate information within this article, please use the contact form to alert us immediately.
 
Having problems finding a source for real news links in real time, click on Whatfinger.com . Visit, bookmark and share this resource and then tell your friends and family.
Previous Article
Next Article
Leave a Comment
Join Wayne's eNewsletter!
Add your email address below to be kept up to date with the latest from Wayne Dupree.
Email*
1 day ago
Recent Articles
