On December 8, 2017, Kaya Jones, a Canadian-American pop singer and alleged former member of the Pussycat Dolls; made a Twitter announcement that left Indian Country in complete shock.
According to Kaya Jones Tweet; Jones was very excited to announce that she was placed on the National Diversity Coalition for Trump as the Native American Ambassador.
Further, Jones stated she was proud to ‘represent’ her heritage in helping with outreach.
Just recently though, Jones tweeted an image using a choker stating: “Proud half Apache Native American. #Geronimo for God and Country.”
 
Now Indian Country questions what is the purpose of the Trump administration and the “Native American Ambassador.”
Here’s what was tweet on Kaya Jones:
Even Jones Wikipedia page was edited to reflect her “identity claims:”
After extensive talk on social media, assistance was offered to verify Jones claims. Including apologies if Jones provided documentation from the Bureau of Indian Affairs:
Long after Jones identity claims, there’s been no documents or information showed to the public to substantiate her claims, but in fact, goes around the question and continues to ask for an opportunity to share her story.
11 thoughts on “Kaya Jones: The “Apache” Native American Ambassador For Trump”
Kegginacngaq
says:
Who is your Father?  Which band of Apaches is he with?  Who are his parents?  If he is full Apache he should have a CDIB CARD!
I’m Apache and I can prove my heritage.  I know my Ancestors Names.  I will not put which tribe I am affiliated with for,  you may try to steal the band just like you have stolen the name “APACHE”and you don’t even know which Band of Apaches you come from.  You don’t speak for Native Americans and never will.  Get a life and it is not with The Native Americans!!!
Throughout the existence of Native people,there have always been those who lived in the shadows. The elders knew who we were, our people knew who were, through our features & our ways.
If she does have Apache blood,she should resign this position, & go about learning about who her ancestors were before stepping out this way.
Your page can go viral. You need initial traffic boost
only. How to get it? Search for; make your
content go viral Wrastain’s tools
It was funny. Keep on posting!
Sponsored Ads
