How Can This Be?
I am just one insignificant female living down here in Australia.
Even I can see that what is happening in the US of A is completely f#@ked.
One man
Refusing to compromise on an idea that is utterly ridiculous (sorry to everyone who believes in the concept of a wall keeping people out).
You are WRONG.
I won’t try and cushion it. Or reason with you. Or placate you. Or try and convince you.
Many more politically savvy people than I have written articles expounding in great detail why walls NEVER work and explaining that the reason they don’t work is that people go over them, under them and around them.
The basic premise that is given for a wall is completely f##ked in its non-logic.
It is a purely emotionally driven argument, rashly promised, to placate a bunch of people who want to blame a group external to themselves for all the problems in THEIR lives, they have not fixed, and want a simple solution.
Its whole premise is racist.
Get those Mexicans out of America and keep them out.
Mexicans are the issue.
BUILD THE WALL, BUILD THE WALL, BUILD THE WALL
If it smells like a catch cry of fascism and sounds and tastes like fascism — it is FACISM.
Whip up an invented problem, containing a nugget of truth (drugs and criminality are damaging to society) then blame a whole group of people for that problem, promise a solution that appears simple that will fix it.
THEN:-
Appeal to those who do not care to dig a bit deeper, appeal to the disenfranchised who won’t bother to question. Tell the people all their problems will be over if they direct all their hate and animosity towards “that other” group of people.
Light the flame, give them a catch cry and chant, give them an authoritarian dictator (oh sorry, leader) then sit back and watch.
Oh, and you better deliver on the promise of a wall.
Doesn’t matter that it will cost 10x the amount projected and will be completely ineffective.
Doesn’t matter that a whole government is partially shut down, so over 800,000 are no longer receiving paychecks.
Does not matter that hundreds of thousands of government contract workers are also affected.
Does not matter people are going hungry as they can’t buy food.
Does not matter that there are reports of attempted suicides and suicides.
Does not matter that rubbish is piling up and chaos is ensuring.
Does not matter the economy is impacted.
DOES NOT MATTER THAT THE rest of the world looks on in horror that the USA is allowing one man to dictate utter misery to appease his ego.
Here is a grown man with the mindset of a 2-year-old.
According to Gallup (2017) the USA is perceived as the greatest threat to world peace in the world.
There is no NICE way to say it.
Every other country is looking on in horror.
Nobody can believe this @@##@@ is not only leading the supposed “land of the free” (whatever that means) but is internally destroying his own people.
It is horrifying.
It is unbelievable.
It is like watching a train wreck and not being able to take your eyes off it even though you know you are watching a disaster unfold.
It is a tragedy.
But, instead of crying — most people laugh. They laugh and point fingers at a man and a country that appears to be disintegrating into chaos.
It is easier to laugh at a country and think WOW, Thank God, that is not OUR country.
Unless you are currently living in Britain and facing BREXIT. Another decision based on racism that smells of elitism and smacks of ego and is internally destroying a country for the sake of simplistic slogans and simplistic solutions (let us remove ourselves from all the countries we have formed alliances with over the last 100 years and go it alone, that will solve all our problems).
Unless you are living in Australia where you have a hard line right-wing government currently in breach of all the United Nations agreements on human rights and treatment of refugees (basically lock them up 1000s of miles offshore, throw away the key and refuse to ever let them leave even if they are found to be genuine refugees). Let asylum seekers starve themselves to death, immolate themselves or die in any other way they choose but don’t back down no matter what.
And ALL the other countries TOO many to mention where war and internal strife are bringing chaos, destruction, and misery to their people.
We are ALL humanity. We ALL live on this one planet called Earth.
That leaders have risen to the top in many countries who blame “others” for the complicated problems and issues facing ALL of us today, and that these hard right leaders are on course to bring down the destruction of their countries, and are doomed to repeat history for the sake of THEIR egos is terrifying.
They are power hungry. They are narcissistic.
They are leaders without a heart for anyone but themselves.
But, our world is interconnected today in more ways than ever before in history.
What affects one of us, affects us all.
It is horrifying.
We have choice.
We can vote.
We can change our leaders.
We can stand up for others who are disenfranchised and blamed for being the problem and who do not have a voice or power as the current power influencers are doing everything they can to suppress them and turn the masses against them.
If every human being alive today, turned and helped ONE other person, so much good could occur. Just HELP one person.
Cook a meal and take it over for your neighbor who is not getting paid.
IT WILL MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
Don’t say it won’t.
Showing you care, showing up for even ONE person is ALL you have to do. You will inspire someone else.
It will pay its way forward.
All you have to do is what you can in your sphere of influence. That is all you can control.
We cannot control the world, but we CAN control our hearts, minds, and tongues.
We can CARE.
That is more than any of our leaders are currently doing.
NB: Since I wrote this yesterday it is noted that there has been a 21-day reprieve for all government workers. It is unknown what will happen after that. I hope in the next three weeks they also get all the backpay owing them so they can pay their rent, loans and return money to whomever they have needed to get money off to survive.
Seeker of Understanding/Meaning, Explorer of Spirit, Writer, Artist, Believer/Doubter, Dreamer, Introverted Communicator, Questioning it All
Follow
101
