 
Justice is supposed to be blind. Why is it that an admitted liar like James Clapper perjured himself to Congress and got off scot-free? But if you’re somehow associated with @realDonaldTrump , then they will pursue you relentlessly? This shouldn’t be a one-way street!
The Senate should investigate FBI methods and selective prosecution of Trump officials. TIME FOR HEARINGS!
Senator Rand Paul took to Twitter on Thursday to blast the Senate for allowing perjurers like James Clapper to get off scot-free while aggressively pursuing anyone associated with President Donald Trump.
The Kentucky senator declared that the Senate should investigate FBI methods and selective prosecution of Trump officials.
“Justice is supposed to be blind. Why is it that an admitted liar like James Clapper perjured himself to Congress and got off scot-free? But if you’re somehow associated with @realDonaldTrump, then they will pursue you relentlessly? This shouldn’t be a one-way street!” Senator Paul tweeted.
Clapper, the director of national intelligence from 2010 to 2017, managed to avoid perjury charges despite  admitting that he lied  to Congress while testifying about mass surveillance on March 12, 2013. He told Senator Ron Wyden that the NSA was not collecting “any type of data at all” on millions of Americans — which was a lie.
@
#
Advertisements
Join The Conversation!
Like us on Facebook to keep pace with David Harris Jr where you'll get exclusive access to tons of great content including videos David produces.
)
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, vulgarity, profanity, all caps, or discourteous behavior. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain a courteous and useful public environment where we can engage in reasonable discourse.
Trending Now
IN YOUR INBOX!
Sign up for my daily email and get the stories everyone is talking about.
Please enter a valid email address
That address is already in use
The security code entered was incorrect
Thanks for signing up
You’re going to want to try this! click here
The Latest
