Instead, Bezos went public with the communications.
Pecker as we know, is or at least was, very good friends with President Trump, always writing favorable stories about him and running negative stories on Hillary Clinton.
For years if not decades, Pecker was covering up for Trump by buying stories, thus owning the rights, and never publishing the actual story known as “catch and kill.” Former Playboy model Karen McDougal’s affair with President Trump is the perfect example.
As a result, Pecker and AMI (American Media, Inc.) got into trouble with the Manhattan US Attorney’s Office for campaign finance violations for paying McDougal $150,000.
Under the deal, as is standard, no additional crimes can be committed. Those emails to Bezos could be considered “extortion” and if that is case, the plea deal is scrapped and Pecker will face jail time for his violation of campaign finance laws, plus extortion charges.
What makes this story even more interesting is the Trump connection. It’s no secret that President Trump has it in for Bezos. The question remains was Trump involved in any way?
In Bezos’ blog post, he refers to Saudi Arabia and Pecker was trying to get funding from the Saudis.
Remember, Jamal Khashoggi was brutally murdered in the Saudi Arabia consulate and the CIA concluded Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered Khashoggi’s assassination. Khashoggi was a journalist for the Washington Post.
This conclusion was disputed by President Trump even though Republicans and Democrats accepted the CIA’s conclusion and Trump hasn’t taken any actions against the Saudis, instead pushing forward with an arms deal.
We are now looking at the possibility that Bezos’ extramarital affair may bring down Pecker, the National Enquirer and President Trump.
Keep in mind that Bezos is the richest person in the world, which means he has more than enough money to pursue his own investigations in order to hand off that information to Congress and federal prosecutors.
Below is Pecker’s plea deal. Paragraph 2 on the second page refers to subsequent crimes.
Alexander Hernandez
Twitter @mcatty_alex
Help Share the Truth Liberally!
Share this:
attorneyalexhernandez.com/ano… Michael Cohen delays his prison as he prepares to testify this month. #MichaelCohen #MuellerInvestigation #HouseIntelligenceCommittee
attorneyalexhernandez.com/a-p… Robert Mueller's report can't come out fast enough.
@scfm69 He has no choice but to run in 2020 to avoid being indicted. I wonder if the Justice Dept. would change the rule of indicting a sitting president. But if he loses, which I believe he will, then it's showtime. Statute of Limitations is 2021.
@Nook417 and each husband is richer than the previous ex husband.
698Days 08Hours 35Minutes 50Seconds
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill . Powered by WordPress .
%d bloggers like this:
