On Friday, America was treated to a preview of things to come when House Democrats turned a hearing with acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker into a grotesque spectacle of the sort of nasty politics and bitter rants that have become the party’s trademark since Hillary Clinton lost the 2016 election.
Now that we are nearly two years into the sweeping investigation of extraconstitutional special counsel Robert Mueller with zero “evidence” of Russian collusion with the Trump administration, the Dems are lashing out now that they have retaken the House and have subpoena power.
With the investigative tribunals starting to ramp up, it was Whitaker who was first in the barrel in the snakepit that as Jerrold Nadler’s Judiciary Committee which hectored and harassed him for over six hours in a classic display of the abuse of power.
Congress has been the scene of many disgusting temper tantrums by Democrats since the election of President Trump and one would think that such conduct would be unbecoming of our elected “representatives” but the bar is now set lower than ever.
It as so ugly, so despicable and so counter to everything that America is supposed to stand for that the POTUS weighed in via Twitter on Saturday morning where he blasted the “vicious” Dems for their over the top display of “hatred and scorn” which will only serve to make them even MORE hateful and scornful.
The Democrats in Congress yesterday were vicious and totally showed their cards for everyone to see. When the Republicans had the Majority they never acted with such hatred and scorn! The Dems are trying to win an election in 2020 that they know they cannot legitimately win!
President Trump on Saturday ripped congressional Democrats after a tense House hearing with Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker the previous day.
Whitaker appeared in front of the Judiciary Committee for nearly six hours on Friday, where he was grilled by Democrats about special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and other topics. He repeatedly refused to discuss his conversations with Trump, infuriating Democrats.
“The Democrats in Congress yesterday were vicious and totally showed their cards for everyone to see. When the Republicans had the Majority they never acted with such hatred and scorn!” Trump tweeted Saturday morning.
Whitaker sparred with various lawmakers during his testimony before the Judiciary panel, with Democrats peppering him with questions and blasting his responses when asked about Mueller, the administration’s separation of migrant families at the border and other topics.
At one point, the acting top cop shocked committee members and spectators alike after he told Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) that his time for questioning had run out.
“Mr. Chairman, I see that your five minutes is up,” Whitaker said, drawing gasps from the panel and a packed crowd.
. @RepJerryNadler : "Have you ever been asked to approve any request or action to be taken by the special counsel?"
Acting AG Whitaker: "Mr. Chairman, I see that your 5 minutes is up." pic.twitter.com/USWriF0YHu
The Judiciary Committee boasts some of the biggest crackpots in Congress and they all took their shots at Whitaker who in turn, masterly trolled their silly dog and pony show that further infuriated the Trump-hating lynch mob.
The most epic was how easily that Whitaker got under the skin of the easily triggered Congressional Black Caucus member Sheila Jackson Lee:
Rep. @JacksonLeeTX18 : "Mr. Attorney General, we're not joking here. And your humor is not acceptable." pic.twitter.com/FhoB2IZFgW
He also mixed it up with California conspiracy-monger Rep. Eric Swalwell who came off looking like a total wimp.
Whitaker snaps at @RepSwalwell : "I’m not a puppet to repeat what you’re saying.” https://t.co/kgurlkuSrV pic.twitter.com/rZ65B4ZKGj
But perhaps the best of all was this meltdown by Rep. Steve Cohen whose unhinged response may be a sign that he needs his meds to be upped.
. @RepCohen : "Would you say the special counsel's investigation is a witch hunt? Are you overseeing a witch hunt?"
Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker: "It would be inappropriate for me to talk about an ongoing investigation." pic.twitter.com/JeGzTMR1do
. @RepJerryNadler : "The committee will stand in recess for 5 minutes."
Acting AG Whitaker: "I get 5 minutes for lunch?" pic.twitter.com/X4cea2O2I9
This futile and stupid waste of taxpayer money was nothing but political theater and it matters not one iota because the new attorney general William Barr is going to be confirmed once the Dems’ stalling is put to an end.
Shameful, vicious and pretty damn un-American when you get right down to it.
You Might Like
