Supported by
Trump Gives Ground on His Wall as Border Deal Comes Into View
Image
Senator C. Richard Shelby, Representative Nita M. Lowey, Representative Kay Granger and Senator Patrick J. Leahy last week in Washington.CreditCreditErin Schaff for The New York Times
Feb. 8, 2019
WASHINGTON — Faced with limited options and a looming deadline to prevent another government shutdown, President Trump is moving toward accepting a border security deal that would fall well short of his once firm demand for $5.7 billion in funds for a wall along the southwestern border.
House and Senate conferees were nearing an agreement that could offer the president $1.3 billion to about $2 billion in funding for border security. That funding, still subject to change, could include money for some physical barriers, such as “bollard fencing,” and result in a deal as early as Monday.
“We’re 95 to 98 percent done,” said Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee.
Mr. Trump has told allies that he would grudgingly accept a border security figure of about $2 billion, but House Democrats remain publicly opposed to spending that much on physical barriers. It is still not clear how much of the final allocation would go toward new fencing, according to three people briefed on the negotiations.
“Throughout the talks, Democrats have insisted that a border security compromise not be overly reliant on physical barriers,” said Evan Hollander, the communications director for the House Appropriations Committee. “We will not agree to $2 billion in funding for barriers.”
The effort to find a funding compromise is an end game of sorts for high-stakes negotiations between House Democrats and Republicans hoping to avoid another government shutdown. The longest one in American history, which stretched from December through most of January , left the president’s approval ratings at new lows and exhausted lawmakers.
The final package is likely to include multiple spending bills, including one for the Department of Homeland Security that has border security funding as well as six others that would keep the government operating, and disaster relief to help communities recover from last year’s natural disasters, according to an appropriations aide.
But the final agreement still has wrinkles to iron out.
While Democrats want to keep funding for border barriers as low as possible, members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, which had earlier pushed Mr. Trump to take an uncompromising line on wall funding, met with him on Thursday and indicated that any number even slightly above $2 billion would satisfy them, for now.
Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, told party colleagues at a lunch and in private conversations over the past few days that the president had told him, “I can live with $2 billion,” according to a Senate aide who witnessed one of the exchanges. A spokesman for Mr. Lee, Conn Carroll, said the remarks were misinterpreted, and the senator was speculating about steps that could be taken to persuade the president to move below his $5.7 billion demand.
Beyond that, negotiators remain far apart on the number of beds for families detained at the border with Mexico. There currently are enough funds allocated for 40,520 detention beds, under the control of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Democrats asked to limit the number of beds to 35,520 for the remainder of the fiscal year, and to increase funds for alternatives to the practice of family detention. Republicans want substantially more beds.
Disputes like that were part of why Democratic aides on Friday played down the likelihood of a quick deal. The Democrats’ last official offer on funding for barriers was a little more than $500 million — although privately they acknowledge they are likely to go higher.
Regardless of where the talks land, the funding under discussion is another significant compromise for Mr. Trump as he struggles to fulfill his campaign promise that he would build a wall at the southwestern border. In December, he publicly dismissed a proposal for $2.5 billion as insufficient, undercutting Vice President Mike Pence, who had floated the prospect by Democrats.
Mr. Leahy, a member of the bipartisan House-Senate committee negotiating the deal, declined to elaborate on any details, citing the need to keep the continuing talks private.
He said that he, along with staff and other members of the 17-member committee, planned to stay in Washington this weekend to negotiate the final details and prepare to sign off on it on Monday. Because of procedural rules in the House, it is seen as the last possible day for lawmakers to unveil a deal that would prevent a government shutdown before the Feb. 15 deadline.
Over the past several days, negotiators have begun discussing the potential placement of new barriers — some of it likely to be bollard fencing, made of sturdy, steel slats — in specific locations on the border that have seen significant increases in illegal crossings, according to two Republican aides.
“The walls we saw were really heavy fences,” said Representative Kay Granger of Texas, the ranking Republican on the House Appropriations Committee, describing a trip to the border she took this week. She told reporters that after speaking with Border Patrol agents, she would support bollard fencing on sections of the border.
In an interview, Ms. Granger expressed optimism that bollard fencing would satisfy the president because he has described its spaced, steel slates in the past — including in his State of the Union speech on Tuesday.
“There’s no one that said we should put a solid wall across our southern border,” she said.
And Ms. Granger said she was heartened by Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s assurance that she would support any bipartisan compromise that emerges from the negotiating committee.
“It didn’t change anything,” she said, chuckling. “We all just started breathing better.”
The president’s supporters, however, present a different challenge.
“I don’t know,” Ms. Granger said when asked how best to convince Mr. Trump’s base that an emerging deal would be acceptable.
On Thursday, Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Chairman, told fellow Republicans that a one-on-one meeting with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office this week left him optimistic.
“I think we are going to get a deal,” Mr. Shelby said, according to one of the attendees.
Democratic lawmakers are bracing themselves for some opposition from the party’s most liberal flank over funding for ICE and other enforcement agencies.
The presence of Representatives Lucille Roybal-Allard of California, a member of the Progressive Caucus, and Henry Cuellar of Texas, a moderate member of the Hispanic Caucus from a border district, among others on the committee, provided some reassurance to Democrats.
But on Thursday, a handful of freshman Democrats held an emotional news conference foreshadowing their resistance to any deal that does not reduce funding for ICE, immigrant detention and other components of enforcement at the border.
“Budgets really are a statement — a statement of our moral values,” said Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, her voice cracking as she recalled her own experience as a refugee. “We cannot have a budget that doesn’t uphold our values.”
Maggie Haberman and Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Border Deal in View, but Not Exactly What the President Wanted. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Related Coverage
