By
Scott Galloway, a Professor of Marketing at NYU Stern School of Business, believes President Donald Trump is involved in the National Enquirer’s alleged blackmail and extortion of Amazon CEO and Washington Post owner, Jeff Bezos.
During an appearance on MSNBC on Friday, host Stephanie Ruhle asked Galloway to elaborate on his statement from Thursday night, in which he said Trump was “directly involved” because Trump “never misses opportunity to mock enemies… Also he is petty, immature and terrible role model for youth.”
9/
Silence on twitter re Bezos/AMI (since Jan 4) is a tell. Police pull over people going 45 in fast lane as they are often hiding something. POTUS is driving 45. He is directly involved/knew about/etc.
“A key tell among law enforcement officials is when someone is driving 45 miles an hour in the fast lane, that they’re hiding something,” Galloway explained on Friday. “The president’s silence on this is eerie.”
“He tweeted about Bezos calling him ‘Bozo’ January 4th — but this is someone who never misses an opportunity to mock someone he perceives as an adversary via Twitter and he hasn’t said anything and I think that’s — that’s a tell here,” he continued.
“And like with a Facebook hack or any scandal involving the president, the only thing we know for sure is that it’s almost worser, always worse than we originally thought. I think this is going to be one of the biggest stories of 2019 and there are several cards still to be turned over here,” Galloway added. “Put another way: The president and [American Media Inc.] are both acting like guilty parties right now.”
Rick Tyler, a former communications director for Republican Senator Ted Cruz (R), noted that the president is close friends with David Pecker, the chief executive of AMI, which publishes the National Enquirer.
“He has consistently used that tabloid to strike at his political enemies, he did that with Ted Cruz and here he’s doing it with Jeff Bezo,” Tyler remarked.
On Thursday evening, Bezos revealed in a bombshell blog post that accused the National Enquirer’s parent company AMI of trying to blackmail him with, among other things, nude photos he’d allegedly sent to Lauren Sanchez, a woman with whom he was having an affair.
Later that evening, The Washington Post reporter Manuel Roig-Franzia claimed that Bezos’ investigative team thinks a government entity may have been responsible for leaking his text messages in the first place.
Bezos on Thursday said in the blog post that the Enquirer was attempting to force him to call off his investigation of the tabloid under the threat of further texts being released.
Washington Posts @RoigFranzia says Bezos' team thinks it's possible that the text leaks were politically motivated and that a "government entity" accessed the Bezos texts and hoo boy that's certainly something pic.twitter.com/MQuzNFbCed
In an appearance on MSNBC on Thursday, Roig-Franzia said that Bezos’s security consultant, Gavin de Becker, believes that the National Enquirer obtained text messages from Bezos through inappropriate means.
“They have begun to believe, the Bezos camp, that this publication by the National Enquirer might have been politically motivated,” Roig-Franzia said Thursday.
“Gavin de Becker told us that he does not believe that Jeff Bezos’s phone was hacked, he thinks it’s possible that a government entity might have gotten hold of his text messages,” he added.
The Enquirer is owned by David Pecker, a top ally of President Trump.
Bezos vowed in the blog post not to fall for “extortion” tactics from Pecker and AMI.
“Rather than capitulate to extortion and blackmail, I’ve decided to publish exactly what [American Media Inc.] sent me, despite the personal cost and embarrassment they threaten,” Bezos wrote.
Continue Reading
You may also like...
NEWS
February 20, 2019
Delaware State Police are reviewing a video that appears to show one of its troopers pulling...
Hate Crime
February 20, 2019
Empire actor Jussie Smollett has been charged with filing a false report and disorderly conduct after...
NEWS
February 20, 2019
U.S. Coast Guard lieutenant Christopher Hasson was taken into custody on Tuesday after gun charges were...
LGBTQ+
February 20, 2019
A Massachusetts county commissioner has come under fire after he suggested that gay politicians were “too...
NEWS
Footage released Wednesday by the news organization, NowThis, shows a furious Fox News host Tucker Carlson...
Trending
NEWS
Authoritarianism
NEWS
NEWS
To Top
