Save
Save
President Donald Trump salutes after laying a wreath at the Hermitage, the home of President Andrew Jackson Credit: AP
President Donald Trump paid homage to Andrew Jackson on Wednesday, visiting the former president's Nashville home to commemorate what would have been his 250th birthday.
After taking a tour of The Hermitage, the president placed a wreath at Jackson's tomb, saluted, and hailed Jackson as "one of our great presidents"
Howard Kittell, the President and CEO of the Hermitage mansion, said attendance at the museum has surged since the election.
"Jackson is probably getting more media attention now than when he was president," he said.
Why Trump is drawing parallels
Steve Bannon, the White House chief strategist, has promoted the comparison since the Republican won the election in November. In a post-election interview with The Hollywood Reporter , the former Breitbart editor said: "Like (Andrew) Jackson's populism, we're going to build an entirely new political movement. It's everything related to jobs. The conservatives are going to go crazy."
On Wednesday, the president described Jackson as a fellow outsider who pledged to represent the forgotten worker and took on the Washington establishment.
"It was during the revolution that Jackson first confronted and defied an arrogant elite," Mr Trump said. "Does that sound familiar to you?" he asked his crowd. "Oh, I know the feeling, Andrew."
U.S. President Donald Trump visits the Hermitage, the historic home of 19th-century U.S. President Andrew Jackson Credit: Reuters
Mr Trump said Jackson's victory "shook the establishment like an earthquake" and talked about how he'd tried to sweep out government corruption, improve veterans' care and impose tariffs on foreign countries to protect American workers - all things Mr Trump pledged to do during his campaign.
The president's tour of the property included a stop at the home's library, where the curator told Mr Trump that Jackson subscribed to 16 newspapers and made notes on stories about which ones he liked and disliked.
On one editorial, he drew a big black "X" to show his disapproval.
"We know that feeling," said Mr Trump, who has been known to scrawl angry notes on reporters' stories with a black Sharpie and send the marked-up stories back to them.
Where the comparisons end
Jackson was not born into wealth - unlike Mr Trump, whose father Fred grew the family business to a net worth exceeding $200m. He did go on to become wealthy but he also gained many years of government experience with multiple stints in Congress. Mr Trump, meanwhile, had no political experience before entering the White House.
Mr Trump received five draft deferrals, while Jackson served as a military general. 
Both have complained about rigged elections, but that's where that comparison ends. While Mr Trump lost the popular vote but won the electoral college, Jackson failed in his first presidential run in 1824 by winning the popular vote but falling short in the electoral college.  
Dan Feller, a history professor at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, said their temperaments also differ. 
"Jackson had the reputation of being impetuous, a shoot-from-the hip, very volatile guy. He earned that reputation," Mr Feller, the director of the university's Papers of Andrew Jackson project, told NBC News . "But by the time he was president, he was 62. He occasionally staged temper tantrums, but that was nothing compared to Trump's 5 am tweets."
Reaction to Trump's tribute to Jackson
Mr Trump's support for the populist president is not proving popular. Jackson's Indian Removal Act of 1830 commissioned the forced removal of Native Americans from their ancestral homelands. More than 4,000 died during their journeys west.
Thanks to that, and his support for slavery, Jackson's standing has fallen so much that that Barack Obama's US Treasury opted to remove Jackson from the $20 bill.
Mr Trump's tribute provoked outrage on Twitter, where he was accused of supporting a man carried out genocide.
Andrew Jackson was a white supremacist slave owner who enacted policies of indigenous genocide. Makes perfect sense Trump is honoring him.
I support Trump. But he needs to stop his love affair with Andrew Jackson, the father of Indian genocide in the U.S.
Nice to see trump applauding the man who was responsible for the illegal genocide of 4,000+ Natives 
— Tyler A (@sleepyplantmom) March 16, 2017
Which other presidents have supported Jackson?
Theodore Roosevelt was a public supporter of Jackson, visiting the mansion on October 22, 1907. He also cited "Good King Andrew" in his 1913 autobiography as an example of a strong leader. 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt visited the mansion and grave in 1934 and praised Jackson for his populist stance - that the government belonged to the people, not the wealthy.
Fifty years ago, Lyndon B. Johnson visited The Hermitage to mark the 200th anniversary of Jackson’s birth. Acknowledging Jackson’s record as a slaveholder, he  paid tribute to the former president for bringing power to the people.
Andrew Jackson's portrait hangs on the wall behind Donald Trump in the Oval Office Credit: AP
Ronald Reagan visited The Hermitage on March 15, 1982 and his address to the Tennessee legislature is comparable to Mr Trump's warm words for Jackson. 
“He is really deliberately trying to use Jackson to say, ‘Everything I’m trying to do as a movement conservative, I’m doing as someone who is not in step with the Republican Party,’” Heather Richardson, a historian at Boston College, told the New York Times . “He’s saying that being an outsider is really just going back to American tradition. He uses Jackson as an avenue to do that."
Live
21 Feb 2019, 5:40pm
21 Feb 2019, 5:35pm
21 Feb 2019, 5:33pm
21 Feb 2019, 5:32pm
21 Feb 2019, 5:17pm
21 Feb 2019, 5:11pm
21 Feb 2019, 4:42pm
21 Feb 2019, 4:14pm
21 Feb 2019, 4:01pm
21 Feb 2019, 3:33pm
21 Feb 2019, 3:30pm
21 Feb 2019, 3:27pm
21 Feb 2019, 3:03pm
21 Feb 2019, 3:00pm
We've noticed you're adblocking.
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
Thank you for your support.
Need help?
Close
