(AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
By
3932
The pathetic and premature drive to try to get Trump a Nobel Peace Prize looks especially ridiculous after he was forced to scrap the much-heralded summit with North Korea.
Republican governors and congressmen who nominated Trump for a Nobel Peace Prize have been left with egg on their face after the planned summit with North Korea went up in flames .
After being led around by Kim Jong Un’s regime, Trump was forced to announce the summit had been canceled. It was the latest and most prominent in a string of diplomatic failures by this administration.
Several Republican lawmakers ended up looking ridiculous after they prematurely made a push for Trump to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize when news of summit negotiations first surfaced.
Eighteen Republican congressmen, led by Rep. Luke Messer of Indiana, signed a letter addressed to the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
“President Trump’s peace through strength policies are working and bringing peace to the Korean Peninsula,” Messer wrote. “We can think of no one more deserving of the Committee’s recognition in 2019 than President Trump for his tireless work to bring peace to our world.”
The congressmen were not alone.
A group of seven Republican governors also sent a letter to the Nobel committee. Led by South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster, the letter proclaimed, “Trump has achieved an unprecedented victory for global peace and security.” It also hailed him for his “transformative efforts to bring peace to the Korean peninsula after more than 60 years of conflict and division.”
Now, as he has allowed a murderous nuclear regime to have the diplomatic upper hand, the effort to score a Nobel for Trump — who remains deeply envious of his predecessor, President Obama, who  was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize — look that much more absurd. Even as the letters were being circulated, Trump and his fellow Republicans were being warned that diplomacy with North Korea is more complicated than filming an episode of “The Apprentice.”
Trump’s racist and incompetent presidency has damaged the image of the Republican Party and has now begun to negatively affect the party’s political power. Yet Republicans continue to prop him up with embarrassing adulation and fawning praise.
Prematurely nominating Trump for the coveted prize should have been embarrassing enough for this group of Republicans. That he has now failed to deliver on the promised summit is an even greater humiliation for all of them.
TAGS
FOLLOW US
1,572,318Fans Like
78,901Followers Follow
RECENT POSTS
Shareblue Media is an American media company. We tell real-world stories to give voice to the heroes fighting for American values. We are a rapidly growing community — reaching millions per week across platforms — that is optimistic, honest, and unafraid.
MOST POPULAR
