Trump tells Democrats to embrace Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal
Trump tells Democrats to embrace Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal
(Getty)
President Donald Trump sarcastically tweeted that he believed Democrats should embrace Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s “Green New Deal” resolution.
“I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal,” Trump  tweeted  Saturday evening. “It would be great for the so-called ‘Carbon Footprint’ to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!”
I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called “Carbon Footprint” to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!
Ocasio-Cortez  released her highly-anticipated Green New Deal resolution  Thursday. Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey released a companion bill in the Senate, and both versions were sponsored by Democratic lawmakers eyeing a 2020 presidential bid.
Ocasio-Cortez’s non-binding resolution also calls for drastically expanding the welfare state, including “a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security” and “high-quality health care” benefits for Americans.
U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) speaks during a news conference for a proposed “Green New Deal” to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in 10 years, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S. February 7, 2019. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst.
The Green New Deal is meant to be a litmus test for Democrats running for president, but the bill has also got  Republicans optimistic about their chances in 2020 . The GOP cast the resolution as “socialist” because of its unprecedented expansion of government over people’s lives.
Trump’s tweet suggests he too thinks it will help Republicans in the next election cycle.
Republicans also caught a break because  Ocasio-Cortez’s office botched the Green New Deal’s roll out . An “FAQ” document that Ocasio-Cortez’s staff distributed to the media along with the resolution contained numerous gaffes, including anti-nuclear language, a reference to “farty cows” and calls for “economic security” for people “unwilling to work.”
Eventually, Ocasio-Cortez’s staff took the FAQ off her webpage. Green New Dealers then went into damage control mode, even claiming the FAQ was “doctored” by conservatives on social media.
Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff Saikat Chakrabarti made the claim, but also admitted an “unfinished” FAQ “got published to the website by mistake.” Though, he did not explain why NPR was also given a gaffe-riddled FAQ.
There separately IS a doctored FAQ floating around. And an early draft of a FAQ that was clearly unfinished and that doesn’t represent the GND resolution got published to the website by mistake (idea was to wait for launch, monitor q's, and rewrite that FAQ before publishing).
A Daily Caller News Foundation investigation, however,  debunked the misleading damage control efforts  by Ocasio-Cortez, her staff and one of her advisers.
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact  [email protected]
We know first-hand that censorship against conservative news is real. Please share stories and encourage your friends to sign up for our daily email blast so they are not getting shut out of seeing conservative news.
Latest posts by BPR Wire ( see all )
Your email
Recipient email
