When I first conceived Zero God (Calumet Editions, 2016), I invented a villain—Lincoln Kincaid—who becomes a candidate for president by running on a popular liberal record but who is secretly controlled by the Foundation, a right-wing fascist group with dreams of attaining world power under the banner of Jesus. Kincaid is not what he appears, and yet he is all but ensured election to the presidency. The Foundation will then have the vast resources of America, particularly its military, to begin their conquest. In Zero God, Americans are well aware of their external adversaries such as Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran. They are ignorant of their internal and most dangerous adversary, the Foundation.
I wrote Zero God well before Donald Trump came onto the scene to, well, warn about a Donald Trump. I didn’t anticipate that the release of my fictional character, Lincoln Kincaid, would virtually coincide with the real thing, Donald Trump. The coincidence is perhaps Zero God’s luck but definitely Zero God’s dark fiction well on its way to dark fact. Zero God is about secret government and warnings against it. In the 2016 race for president, Trump, quite unlike Kincaid, is exactly as he appears to Americans: A neo-fascist populist who openly attacks minorities, immigrants, women, the Bill of Rights, friendly foreign nations—just about everything that many of us like to believe is America’s decency and inspiration.
Trump would sneer at Zero God.
One can imagine Trump’s arrogant proclamation that Kincaid has nothing on him because in real life there is no need for secrecy. After all, Trump has already amassed tens of million of American supporters (AKA “Trumplets”) who somehow find beauty in his ugliness. Trump hurls his foul messages like great hunks of bleeding meat to the Trumplets who gobble it up and beg for more. Trump’s demagoguery, nativism, misogyny, threats, and neo-fascist persona, all marching under his marvelous double-speak to “Make America Great Again,” has resonated, God help us, in this, our country. There is virtually nothing between him and the Republican nomination, thus landing him one election away from the presidency.
Both Kincaid and Trump are terrifying. In the comforting light of fiction, Kincaid is imprisoned between the covers of a book. Donald Trump is the real thing and he acknowledges no boundaries. He’s made it this far on the synergism between the Trumplets’ fears and his dexterous manipulation of those fears. The world is moving too fast for the Trumplets. They fear shifting demographics which point to a time in America, not far in the future, when African-Americans, Latinos, and Orientals will collectively outnumber whites. They fear immigrants, especially Muslims, Hispanics, and Orientals. The cultural fluctuations of same-sex marriage, the so-called “breakdown” of the family, women in the work force, and all those foreigners who speak all those diabolical languages, terrify them. They dread their own ignorance of technological advances which either have, or will, push them out of the workforce. They loathe the black president with a Muslim name and the prospect of a lady president notwithstanding her Anglo Saxon name. They believe that the 1.5 billion Muslims in the world are their sworn enemies and are out to kill them in terrorist attacks. They believe Hispanic immigrants are out to steal their country.
And yet, are not the Trumplets themselves being fooled? Are not they falling for the Bait & Switch, a major theme in Zero God? Trump knows that ignorance is bliss and he makes certain that the Trumplets are the happiest people on earth. He grants them permission—indeed propels them—to give in to, and then amplify, the worst angels of their natures, the better to feed them the bait and blind them to the switch.
Trump’s baits are his promises to defeat the Trumplets’ fears by “Making America Great Again.” His switch is “again.” There’s nothing wrong with “Making America Great.” There’s much wrong with “Making America Great Again.”
“Again” is an innocent and much-used adverb in daily conversation and writings. However, in Trump’s America, “again” is ominous and sinister. It implies that America is not great now but was so in an era past. In this way “Making America Great Again” is code for embracing parts of American history that no American should be proud of. Trump doubles down by citing the “tremendous hatred” that he says partly defines Islam and by proposing a ban on Muslims entering the country “until better security precautions are implemented.” However, he ignores the reality that the real stories of Muslims today are the few inside America who are grateful for American citizenship and the many outside America who slaughter each other by the tens of thousands over religious differences.
He again pushes the “again” button by attacking Hispanics. He first calls them by the semi-pejorative, “Mexicans,” accuses Mexico of “dumping their worst citizens” on America, and offers sinister specifics: Mexicans smuggle drugs into America, carry “tremendous infectious disease” into America, and commit crimes, particularly rape, in America. Trump well knows that reality is the opposite: Mexico is not dumping Mexican Hispanics. Mexican Hispanics are dumping Mexico. The disease and rape accusations are mere icing for his Trumplets because, somewhere, deep in their cob-webbed souls, perhaps placed there by vague recollections of history lessons in school contradicted by racism in the home, raise the worst of America’s past: Hatred, segregation, witch-hunts, McCarthyism, jingoism, and lynching’s of African – Americans. The implication is that these worked then, and can work even better today against a far broader cast of victims.
As in Zero God, Trump speaks the language of patriotism. His bait is that he will increase defense spending and force Mexico to pay for a wall on the US – Mexican border. His switch is that these two are related. Even Trump knows that Mexico will not voluntarily pay tens of billions of dollars for a wall it neither needs nor wants, and no amount of diplomacy will change their minds. This is Trump’s subtle threat of military action against Mexico. Trump’s recipe is time-worn: Stir up hatred of Hispanics and, by extension, their actual or perceived mother country, Mexico. Then hint at a dark conspiracy between Hispanics in America and Mexico to, say, annex parts of the Southwestern United States into Mexico. Everything is then in place for Trump to start a “preemptive” war with Mexico, invade its northern provinces, and negotiate a peace treaty which requires Mexico to build the wall and cede to the US the land it has occupied.
Trumplets fear global climate change and the growing power of China.
Trump links them. Beware the yellow man and China where so many of them live, he tells them. The baits are Trump’s assurances that climate change is a hoax by the liberals who need it as leverage to gain world government and, at the same time, that the Chinese themselves created the concept in order to discriminate against US imports to China. Never mind his twisted logic that links climate change, China, and the blocking of US products into Chinese markets. It is enough that the Trumplets swallow them. Trump later said that his remarks on the Chinese were only a joke but he and the Trumplets wink at each other. The switch is a strange dynamic in which Trump has it both ways. On the one hand, Trump assures the Trumplets that climate change is a deception. On the other hand, he claims that it is nevertheless a Chinese ruse. The Trumplets happily swallow this nonsense.
Trump backhands the Bill of Rights. The First Amendment stands as both bait and switch. The First Amendment, in most cases, allows him to speak to groups minus hecklers. Yet, Trump enforces this right by sending his white supremacist thugs to beat any heckler who dare opens her mouth. At one rally, while watching his minions assault a black woman, he told his audience that “in the old days, which isn’t so long ago, when we were less politically correct, that kind of stuff wouldn’t have happened.”—Read, when America was “great.” He’s called for the mass arrest of protestors and the imposition of criminal sanctions against them that would “ruin the rest of their lives.” His best follow-up line: “And then we’re not going to have any more protesters, folks.” The “folks,” of course, are the Trumplets, and they apparently feel that a strong leader like Trump would put an end to this mish-mash of protest rights under the First Amendment. After all, he’s praised China for massacring its own citizens staging protests on Tiananmen Square, the equivalent of our National Mall.
This echoes Sarah Palin’s “Second Amendment Remedy” which had so warmed the hearts of her followers then morphed into today’s Trumplets. Trumplets loathe the media. It brings them mixed messages, which frustrates them, bad news, which scares them, and rational debate, which terrifies them. They are desperate for relief, and so Trump baits them with attacks on the media who write “negative and horrible and false articles.” He promises to strengthen defamation law so that “we can sue them and win lots of money.” An underlying current is Trump’s support of the notion, joyfully embraced by Trumplets, that all media lies all the time.
Trump’s switch is the “them and you.” Trump proposes elimination of First Amendment rights for “them,” which the Trumplets interpret as everyone else. He does not tell the Trumplets that they are included in the “them.” When the Trumplets, at Trump’s urging, attack the freedoms of “them,” they unwittingly attack these freedoms for themselves.
Trumplets demand simple and believe Trump when he says he can deliver it. Is Trump lying? Of course. Even Trump knows there is no simple solution for a complex problem such as healthcare. His bait is, of course, the simple. On the one hand, the US is a complicated nation of one federal government, fifty state governments, and thousands of local governments, all backed by a host of institutions without which democracy dies, including the churches, not-for-profits, unions, businesses, open elections, and free and functioning courts. America is almost impossible to govern and most of us want it that way. The switch is a fascist America. Fascism is rule by the elite few over the non-deserving many. In Zero God, the elite few are the Foundation. In the case of Donald Trump, they are him and his cronies. In both, the non-deserving many are the rest of us, including the Trumplets. Fascism can brook no opposition, and so its ascension means no Bill of Rights, no freedoms, no more “We, the people” and a “more perfect union,” and no more equality, justice, and opportunity. It means you either shut up or find yourself, without benefit of Habeas Corpus, in a camp with hundreds of others who thought they, too, were smarter than Trump.
Trump’s “simple” tax proposals are the bait. He proposes lower tax rates for businesses and all Americans and eliminating most business deductions. The Trumplets love the bait but, as always, miss or ignore the switch. “Simple” in tax language means more wealth to the already wealthy, more poverty to the already impoverished, and enormous deficits. If one leans in closer, Trump’s “simple” deletion of business deductions spells the end of small business. He rails against the minimum wage, raising the tiresome bait that it “makes us noncompetitive.” Here, Trump needs no switch because the Trumplets’ reaction to the death of minimum wage is nothing short of amazing: They support repeal of the minimum wage even though it is they who will suffer the most by its repeal.
Trump revels in his lies because his Trumplets believe them. A glaring example is his flip-flop on abortion. At one time he took a public stand for pro-choice. He is now pro-life and denies that he was ever pro-choice. Then, for good measure, Trump throws in a culture of misogyny. He has called some women “ugly” and raises women’s menstrual periods as a weapons against them.
Decent Americans may think these scenarios are outlandish and beyond the realm of the possible.
Think again, decent Americans.
All pales when measured against the terror inherent in Trump’s threat to use nuclear weapons against ISIS. The bait here is a perverse pride in “We showed them we mean business!” There is no switch because Trump himself is apparently ignorant of the fact that Russia and China, certainly not allies of America and Western Europe, together possess upwards of nine thousand nuclear weapons. The use of one nuclear weapon by any power anywhere in the world will more likely than not inspire other nuclear powers to use theirs. One bomb, dropped by America, frees the nuclear genie from its bottle. There is no power on earth to force it back into the bottle. Would Trump and his Trumplets—those still alive but certain to die—revel in the wastelands of Russia and China from the wasteland that was once America?
The “mainstream” Republican Party has repudiated Trump in hopes of saving itself. They will fail.
Do not mourn them.
They gave birth to Donald Trump decades ago. They sold out to the Christian Right who, in the grandest of hypocrisies, support Trump. They’ve vilified anyone who doesn’t look, walk, talk, and have sex like them—read minorities and LGBT’s—though some of these claim Republican affiliation. They’ve regaled America with their campaigns replete with “values” and “minorities are your enemies” and “god, guns, and gays.” They’ve so frightened Americans with terrorism that they could lie to get America into a war, send other families’ kids home in coffins from that war, and use both as a means to their own aggrandizement. The Republican Party has handed us the largest economic gap between the very wealthy and the rest of us in the history of the Union. They birthed “Reagonomics,” AKA “supply side economics” and “trickle down,” and thus bestowed unto us lower wages and semi-slavery to the gigantic business entities they’ve created. Ironically, it is the Trumplets themselves who have been most victimized by these policies and yet, they blind themselves to the fact that their idol, Donald Trump, offers more of the same.
The Republican Party has attacked voting rights all over the country under their own bait of “fair elections.” The switch here has nothing to do with elections and everything to do with suppressing the vote of minorities who would likely vote against them. Their corruption made possible the likes of Bernie Madoff, he of the fifty billion dollar Ponzi scheme. They’ve reversed campaign spending laws to give corporations the right of free speech and thus the means to turn elections with unlimited amounts of cash. They’ve run enormous deficits, thus growing the national debt towards the breaking point, and have managed to blame these on Barack Obama. They love all things military and have funded expensive weapons systems that the Pentagon itself says it has no use for. Then it slanders anyone who speaks against this outrage as “unpatriotic.” It is the party of fears, namely terrorism, immigrants, and smart and educated people. It has increasingly rewarded those who cheat, lie, and steal, and has stymied good faith efforts to place their practitioners in prison.
This Republican Party has nothing decent to say about real government because, for a half-century, they’ve thought nothing it. They’ve played on President Barack Obama’s black face in the White House to turn even some educated Americans against him. Yet, Barack Obama is, by any measure, historical or otherwise, a very good president, and they know it. He saved the US and world economies. He pulled America out of two wars, one of which it entered on outright Republican lies. He and the coalition he’s pieced together are containing ISIS despite Republicans’ rants that he is “weak” on the issue. To prove his manliness, they hint that Obama must commit American boys and girls as ground troops against ISIS. Yet, the President—like all of us— knows that it is never the elite whose kids go first or at all, and whose kids come home with PTSD or in caskets. The federal deficit is at the lowest percentage of gross domestic product since the 1970’s.
Barack Obama, with courage and ability, started the fight against the most expensive and most inept healthcare system in the world. Eighteen million Americans—and the number is growing—who had no health insurance when he took office now have it. Medical care costs are rising at the lowest rate since the 1960’s. His energy policies are making America energy self-sufficient and therefore no longer prey to OPEC’s gouging. Petroleum prices have fallen dramatically and gasoline is less than two dollars a gallon. The stock market has tripled in value since he took office. He has partially succeeded in fighting the corruption on Wall Street and placing some of the bad actors in jail. Unemployment was well above ten percent when he took office. Today it’s below five percent and the economy is creating record numbers of jobs.
President Obama has been graceful and eloquent in the face of abuse the like of which we haven’t seen lobbed at presidents since the 1930’s, or perhaps the American Civil War. He has the spiritualism to launch into “Amazing Grace” while delivering an emotional eulogy. His family is a beautiful wife and two lovely daughters.
The Republican Party was once a great party. It has disgraced itself by jumping into the abyss of selfishness, corruption, fear, and outright cruelty. They haven’t damaged America, they’ve eviscerated it. They should bow their heads in shame for sundering a good and decent president and making a President Donald Trump possible. Their salvation lies not in winning the elections this fall, but by losing them in a thundering defeat. Then they can rebirth themselves into the party of Abraham Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, and Dwight D. Eisenhower, and offer true opposition to the Democratic Party.
Are there fictional heroes in Zero God? I won’t say. Are there real heroes in the America of today? Is there greatness in the American soul, the American people? These have been there in days past, a humbling glory which seems to have been lost. We, every American who stands against the Donald Trumps of America, must again answer the Clarian Call, not of military conquest, not of world domination, and not of imperialism, but of courage and common decency. If we find these our confusion will fall away and we will stand up for the Constitution, particularly its Bill of Rights, stand up for every one of God’s children, no matter their station in life, and stand up for what is not popular, but right. We will find the courage to stand against and defeat the Donald Trumps who stand against every ideal that America stands for and who would destroy everything that makes life worthwhile. In this way, we will save that crazy, wacky, confusing, loud, exasperating, mixed-up, sometimes not nice but almost always lovable idea that we call the United States of America.
Then, and only then, can we sing about the Land of the Free and the Home of the Brave.
Advertisements
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
%d bloggers like this:
