Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
There's a little 'Mein Kampf' in Trump's 'Art of The Deal': Column The Donald is no genocidal warmonger, but like Hitler, he's capitalizing on public craving for national self-respect. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1MV6jv3
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
There's a little 'Mein Kampf' in Trump's 'Art of The Deal': Column
Peter Ross Range Published 3:22 a.m. ET March 31, 2016 | Updated 6:34 p.m. ET March 31, 2016
The Donald is no genocidal warmonger, but like Hitler, he's capitalizing on public craving for national self-respect.
A demonstration in New York on March 19, 2016.
(Photo11: Eduardo Munoz Alvarez, Getty Images)
It was August 1924 , and Adolf Hitler was pounding away on his little Remington portable typewriter in a small prison cell outside Munich. He was writing Mein Kampf and reaching a climax of self-infatuation. Increasingly convinced of his messianic mission to save Germany — from Marxists, from economic misery, from the Jewish world conspiracy — Hitler spun his own self-image to historic and histrionic heights.
“ At long intervals of human history ,” he wrote, “it may occasionally happen that the practical politician and the political philosopher are one.” This rare combination of the man of action and the man of vision — Hitler had in mind Napoleon, Frederick the Great of Prussia and himself — was what made the great leader uniquely able to prevent his country’s “downfall” and “collapse” — two of Hitler’s favorite words as he drafted his political manifesto.
In short, the solution to Germany’s calamitous post-World War I misery was … Hitler. Though he discussed in his book everything from education to warship construction and stamping out syphilis, Hitler’s primary offer was himself. After its publication in 1925, Mein Kampf became known as the Nazi bible.
Hitler’s special skill in selling himself was his uncanny ability to intuit crowd mood. He understood that he had to reach past the nitty-gritty of desperate 1920s pocketbook issues to the German people’s sense of themselves. “The question of the recovery of the German people (from World War I) is not a question of economic recovery,” he wrote in an internal party memorandum. Regaining an “inner feeling” was the key, he explained, because only that could lead again to “national greatness.” Germans, not merely defeated but humiliated by the war’s aftermath, craved self-respect even more than bread, Hitler rightly sensed.
Sound familiar? While Donald Trump is no killer, he shares Hitler’s goal of national greatness . Like Hitler, Trump has a preternatural sense of crowd mood and the voters’ inner needs, not just their material distress. They want, even more than badly needed jobs and security, a sense of their own value in an unmoored world.
And, like Hitler, Trump offers the same route to achieving renewed greatness: himself. A born demagogue believes that only he has the skills needed to save the day.
Trump and Hitler proceed from the same apocalyptic starting point. In Trump’s narrative, America is on the brink of ruin. At least a portion of his listeners, as did Hitler’s, passionately believes the downfall scenario. Each man is (or was) skilled at setting up boogeymen: For Hitler, it was Jews, Marxists, the hated French and the “lying press.” For Trump, it is Muslims, Mexican illegals, the Islamic State terrorist group and the Chinese who are supposedly cleaning our clocks. When convenient, Trump includes the “ dishonest ” news media covering his events — a tactic also used in the 1960s by Alabama Gov. George Wallace.
Yet, like Hitler, Trump understands the importance of the news media to his political enterprise. In 1987, Trump wrote in the book he now holds up as a kind of Trump bible, The Art of The Deal: “If you are a little different, or a little outrageous, or if you do things that are bold or controversial, the press is going to write about you. … Even a critical story … can be very valuable.”
Hitler couldn’t have agreed more. After a particularly violent beer hall rally in Munich, he said: “It makes no difference whatever whether they laugh at us or revile us. … The main thing is that they mention us.”
By his self-identification with famous men of the sword, Hitler created a glorified rationale for his unique qualification to save Germany. Trump has a simpler explanation: deals. He does not invoke storybook figures of history but rather his own career as a deal-maker. Reframing the practice of politics and the exercise of foreign policy as the art of the deal, Trump claims that only he has the negotiating skills to arrest the coming downfall and once again achieve greatness, his all purpose palliative for a disillusioned and rebellious following.
In Mein Kampf, Hitler expounded a great-man theory of politics based on “the genius and actions of an individual personality,” as opposed to that weak and wobbly thing called majority rule. This was his undisguised argument for authoritarian governance. Trump, with his cavalier attitude toward Congress — he talks of expanding laws  as if by presidential fiat — echoes Hitler’s high-handed dismissal of parliamentary democracy as “ a joke ” (in a 1923 interview with an American newspaper).
Comparing Trump to Hitler is slippery business. No one serious sees Trump as a genocidal psychopath seeking world conquest. Trump does not even seem to have the grasp of world history that Hitler, for all his distortions and liberties in Mein Kampf, had acquired as a busy autodidact (he called his year in Landsberg Prison “ my university (education) at state expense ”). Nor does Trump have a need for political success as his complete self-affirmation; Hitler, by contrast, had no other profession than politician.
Even so, the man in cell No. 7 was operating on raw instincts that, in the end, won him Germany. “The mentality of the masses has no use for half measures and weakness,” Hitler wrote one day. “It recognizes only ruthless strength and brutality.”
In his book, Trump wrote: “It’s instincts, not marketing studies,” that drive the good deals. No deep thinker, he is as instinctive as a politician can be. Eerily, those instincts are also winning the presidential candidate a large slice of American politics.
Peter Ross Range, a longtime Germany specialist, is a writer based in Washington, D.C. His new book is  1924: The Year That Made Hitler .
In addition to its own editorials, USA TODAY publishes diverse opinions from outside writers, including our  Board of Contributors . To read more columns like this, go to the  Opinion front page .
