In the first hour of Thursday in New York, NBC Late Night host Seth Meyers devoted one of his “A Closer Look” sermons to touting “Medicare For All” and mocking President Trump and Duck Dynasty patriarch Phil Robertson for opposing single-payer socialism. Meyers warned “Scare-mongering about socialism might have worked a few years ago, but it’s lost its punch now that Republicans have used it over, and over, and over again.” He touted Trump campaigning against Sen. Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, who was re-elected. 
Like a good Democrat, Meyers denied Barack Obama was a socialist, based on how he dresses: “I mean, first of all, look at the way he dresses now. He looks like a high-powered sports agent.” He also mocked Trump that while he was “whining about socialism in public,” he said he recognized the star power of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Meyers cracked “Really? You predicted one of the most charismatic and internet-famous politicians in the country had star power? I wonder who else he brags about? ‘You know who I think is going places? Tom Hanks.'”
Speaking of “scare-mongering,” this is same woman who claims “the world is going to end in 12 years if we don’t address climate change.”
 
 
MEYERS: The reason they’re all freaking out about Medicare for all is because they know it makes basic sense to people. Most people don’t care whether it’s called socialism, or capitalism, or whatever, they just know it’s inherently unfair for mega-billionaires to hoard their wealth while millions of Americans don’t even have health care. Ocasio-Cortez made that point in an interview recently, and a Fox News guest mocked her for it. 
In his Fox News clip from The Story on January 22, Ocasio-Cortez argued that “A system that allows billionaires to exist when there are parts of Alabama where people are still getting ringworm because they don’t have access to public health is wrong.” Washington Post columnist Marc Thiessen pointed out that ringworm isn’t exactly fatal, which the socialist Seth audience hated. “
NBC skipped over what Thiessen added: It’s just an ignorant statement and the problem she’s having is she’s making ignorant statement after ignorant statement, she hasn’t misspelled potato yet but she’s on her way.”
Meyers mocked Robertson for an appearance with Neil Cavuto on Fox Business where he took after Sen. Kamala Harris saying “Elect me and everything’s free.” Then he said he didn’t need “health care” because he was given health by God.
Meyers concluded by repeating his “basic sense” argument: 
MEYERS: Now, there is a reason, a reason these guys are freaking out about Medicare for all, and why most Democrats running for president are for it. It just makes basic sense to people. Everyone deserves health care. For one very simple reason and that is — 
NEIL CAVUTO:  People get sick on Earth in human form.
Meyers has no opposing viewpoint to ask if “everyone deserves health care,” how is that working out in Canada, or England…or Venezuela? But don’t “scare-monger” Seth. He doesn’t have to debate anyone. 
1 hour ago
FullMagazine© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved  | 
Full Magazine claims no credit for any images posted on this site unless otherwise noted. Images on this blog are copyright to their respective owners. If there is an image that belongs to you and you do not wish for it to appears on this site, please email with a link to the image and it will be promptly removed.
