February 8, 2019 Martin
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi suffered a total meltdown on Thursday when trying to attack President Donald Trump.
During her weekly news conference, the California Democrat slurred her words, mumbled to herself, and short circuited numerous times when attempting to insult the president.
As noted by The American Mirror , the off-the-walls briefing kicked off with Pelosi struggling mightily to verbalize her thoughts when asked about Trump condemning Democrat-controlled House Committees for launching partisan investigations.
“I-I-I always think that whatever the President says about us, he’s projecting his own unruliness,” Pelosi began, stuttering from the get go.
She then had a hard time finishing her sentences.
“As I mentioned, two of our committees have already—subcommittees have already had hearings, but we hope it will be inv— all of the committees of jurisdiction will be very involved in it and that’s the—impression that I have,” she said.
After mispronouncing “bi-cameral,” Pelosi then mispronounced “perogative,” saying “preogative” and said, “conc, uh”— fair conclusion.”
A few minutes later, Pelosi acted as if she had never heard of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, also referred to as the USMCA trade deal.
When asked about the trade deal getting passed in Congress, Pelosi acted as if she had never heard of the deal or acronym.
“With the— what do we calling it now? U.S.-Mexico-Canada? I don’t know if it has an acronym,” she said, finally acknowledging that she had heard of it, adding it’s “formerly known as NAFTA.”
Later in the 15-minute briefing, Pelosi also downplayed the significance of the Democrat blackface and sex abuse scandals rocking Virginia in the last week.
“With everything that’s been going on with Virginia,” Fox News’ Chad Pergram began before Pelosi cut him off by saying, “yeah.”
“Virginia’s a swing state, politically, you won several states that are in the House,” he tried to continue before she cut him off again and bizarrely muttered “seats.”
VOTE HERE: Do you think Trump gave a GREAT State of the Union speech?
WATCH:
Pelosi’s ridiculous and incoherent press conference came just one day after she claimed Trump made a “threat” during his State of the Union address on Tuesday.
“An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics, or ridiculous partisan investigations,” Trump said toward the end of his speech.
He added: “If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way. We must be united at home to defeat our adversaries abroad.”
This message, which clearly calls for unity and coming together for the better of the country, was viewed by Pelosi as being “threatening.”
While speaking to Roll Coll , Pelosi claimed that Trump was threatening Congress.
It was a threat. It was an all-out threat. The president should not bring threats to the floor of the House.
He said he wasn’t going to cooperate unless we didn’t exercise our constitutional responsibility to oversight. It’s not investigations, it’s oversight.
This has been a terrible week for Pelosi.
