stop
Loading...
Loading...
Household sharing included. No complicated set-up. Unlimited DVR storage space. Cancel anytime.
Working...
PROPHECY! Election of Pres Donald Trump Prophesied in 2007, Impeachment Attempts Prophesied in 2014
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Jul 21, 2017
PROPHECY! Election of Pres Donald Trump Prophesied in 2007, Impeachment Attempts Prophesied in 2014
God is totally and completely in control of the events that we are presently witnessing in America and the world. As many were shocked when Donald Trump became the 45th President of the United States, this was no surprise to God. As Amos 3:7 declares, Surely the Sovereign Lord does nothing without revealing his plan to his servants the prophets. The late Kim Clement was one of these prophets. You know if someone is a true prophet if what they prophesy actually comes to pass. God knew these things would come to pass. Now we are living in the fulfillment of the words that have been revealed through Kim Clement.
’Trump shall become a trumpet’, says the Lord… where Time Magazine will have no choice but to say what I want them to say. Newsweek, what I want to say…For the Spirit of God says, ‘Yes, he may have hot blood, but he will bring the walls of protection on this country in a greater way and the economy of this country shall change rapidly’, says the Lord of Hosts”. Continue Reading Description Below...
★☆★ GET FULL CONTENT AND RELATED ARTICLES★☆★
Things are indeed changing rapidly since the day our present Administration has taken office. During the previous Administration, our borders were being overrun. Amidst the sweeping changes that we are presently seeing in the White House, we are seeing an outcry of voices who are against the results of the Presidential Election. Those who don’t like this outcome are crying out for President Trump to be impeached. Before Donald Trump was even on the map, Kim Clement, once again, prophesied about Donald Trump and the exact headlines that are being broadcasted today.
As Kim Clement shared on February 22, 2014, a prophetic vision the Lord gave him, he was shown a man that was standing in Jerusalem. “I was praying for America and I was praying for Israel. Nothing unusual. And, suddenly, going behind my back, going in the form of an arrow, was 100’s of 1,000’s of people. I was stunned by what I saw.” He continues to share how the entire crowd of people imitated him as he raised his hands towards Heaven. When he shouted, they all shouted. “They were one. There were one party of people. It continued until I realized, amongst them stood one that God had set aside to be the leader of this nation.”
Being that it was 2014, Clement thought he should be receiving this vision closer to the time that it would take place. God responded to him; “This man has a humble stature, but he is a genius.” Clement continues to describe the encounter with the Lord. “And then I heard ‘gold’. I wasn’t sure if this was attached to his name, but He said to me, “He will restore the fortunes in this nation because of his brilliance.” As Clement was fixated on the man that the Spirit of God was revealing to him, the Spirit of God continued to speak. “This man will throttle the enemies of Israel. This man will throttle the enemies of the West; and there are highly embarrassing moments that are about to occur for many, many politicians in this nation.”
As Clement continues to share the details of the prophetic vision that the Lord gave him, he begins to describe what was going to take place in the recent elections. “There will be a shaking of the Democrats in the upcoming elections, but unsettling for the Republicans…I am DISSATISFIED by what emerges from both parties.” Clement was shown a nation that was “itching for a new kind of war with America.” It was then that he was shown the shouts that we are hearing today. “They will shout IMPEACH! IMPEACH! They say, but Nay.” He continued to clarify the times that he was prophesying about. “This nation shall come very suddenly. But he shall not come in the time of President Obama. They shall come when this one arises. My David that I have set aside for this nation…they will say this man is not speaking enough!
Category
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Show more
Did you know you could create a playlist of videos on YouTube?
Thanks for your feedback!
Add to
Loading playlists...
