Start reading The Daily Wire WITHOUT ADS*
Try it FREE for 30 Days!
E-mail *
Remember me
By checking this box, I have read and agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and authorize Forward Publishing LLC to charge my card today for the subscription fee and in the future for renewal fees. *
Leave this field blank
*Internal promotions, recommended content, and ads that enhance the user experience may still be included on the site.
Alex Wong/Getty Images
   views
 
"Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion," Trump tweeted Thursday night, quoting Burr: "We don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia."
Early Friday, Trump continued the thread (tweets below): "Not only did Senator Burr’s Committee find No Collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia, it’s important because they interviewed 200 witnesses and 300,000 pages of documents, & the Committee has direct access to intelligence information that’s Classified," he wrote, crediting Fox's Gregg Jarrett.
Citing a report by The Hill's John Solomon, Trump added: "Now we find out that Adam Schiff [chair of the House Intelligence Committtee] was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion, who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff."
Trump then blasted the media for ignoring the committee's findings: "The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between 'Trump' & Russia....It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!"
Trump's point about Schiff and Simpson is a reference to a report by Solomon published Thursday that is starting to gain some attention. Some photos from July 2018 have emerged showing Schiff meeting with Simpson, "one of the key and most controversial figures in the Russia collusion scandal." While both of them insisted to Solomon through spokesmen that the meeting was surrendipitous and "brief," Solomon offers some skepticism and underscores the "questions of hypocrisy" it raises for Schiff.
"At the time of the encounter, Simpson was an important witness in the House Intelligence Committee probe who had given sworn testimony about alleged, but still unproven, collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign," Solomon explains. "Simpson ran the firm hired by Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic Party to find dirt on Trump in Moscow. He employed retired British intelligence operative Christopher Steele, whose infamous and unverified dossier became the main evidence for the FBI’s probe of the Trump campaign, particularly the surveillance warrant against Trump campaign adviser Carter Page."
 
Both Simpson and Schiff's representatives told Solomon that the discussion was "brief" and didn't cover anything important, but Solomon notes that Schiff had a "far higher standard" a couple years ago when he was calling for the investigation of Republican then-committtee chair Devin Nunes "over his meetings with national security council officials at the Trump White House."
Below are Trump's tweets on the issue:
Highly respected Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of Senate Intelligence, said today that, after an almost two year investigation, he saw no evidence of Russia collusion. “We don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.” Thank you!
Not only did Senator Burr’s Committee find No Collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia, it’s important because they interviewed 200 witnesses and 300,000 pages of documents, & the Committee has direct access to intelligence information that’s Classified. @GreggJarrett
 
Now we find out that Adam Schiff was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion, who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier, even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff. John Solomon of @thehill
The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee, after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get, just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between “Trump” & Russia....
...It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX, developed long before the election itself, but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest & report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!
