Continue reading with a digital subscription.
$3.00 for first 3 months then $9.99 per month, or $79 for the year.
Cancel your subscription at any time.
You are the owner of this article.
My Account
(63101)
Today
A mix of clouds and sun during the morning will give way to cloudy skies this afternoon. High around 45F. Winds light and variable..
Tonight
Cloudy skies. Low 31F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.
Updated: February 21, 2019 @ 11:30 am
Close
From left, President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, as Trump speaks while departing after a Senate Republican Policy luncheon in Washington on Jan. 9. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
associated press
associated press
WASHINGTON • Two years ago, Missouri Sen. Roy Blunt predicted that the new president, Donald Trump, would bring “a really interesting synergy to the whole process.”
“He does and, I think will continue to look at things differently,” Blunt said in January 2017, forecasting a change that “encourages everybody else to think about what are all the options available here, as opposed to how we have always done this before.”
How’s that synergy worked out, Senator?
Blunt, R-Mo., a member of the border security conference committee that is trying to forge a deal to avoid another government shutdown that Trump will sign, chuckled.
“Many people voted for President Trump” intending “that we would not see business as usual,” Blunt said. “That is exactly what they got.”
As Congress lurches toward another shutdown showdown, the unpredictability of this president looms as a bigger wild card than ever. What Trump will sign, what executive powers he may try to invoke and how he will narrate the contretemps on social media all has the capital city on edge.
By design or by seat of the pants, this is the new reality.
Two years into his presidency, Donald Trump remains the Executive Enigma, a president who uses social media to batter and belittle, but who — as he proved in his State of the Union speech last week — also can fit his rhetoric to the aspirations and mutual approach to problems that Americans have come to expect from their presidents.
And official Washington still doesn’t know how to deal with the dichotomy.
“This is a president who is a visionary,” press secretary Sarah Sanders said. “He’s a president who likes to get things done.”
Democrats publicly, and some Republicans privately, would take issue with that in the wake of the 35-day government shutdown over Trump’s call for $5.7 billion to fund more than 200 more miles of wall on the Mexican border.
Democrats, many of whom voted for walls in the past, have dug in against Trump’s wall. Republicans are trying to call them out, but their case is undermined by the knowledge that the president’s tactics on the issue have shifted as much as his ultimate goal — a border wall that he keeps changing in description and scope.
Trump agreed to a government funding deal to kick the problem down the road in December, then backed out, leaving Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell stewing over the holidays. A year ago, Trump rejected a possible deal on border security that could have gotten him the parts of the wall he wants built.
Some Republicans dream of a wide-open communications field to extol the Trump presidency without him mixing it up on Twitter. Blunt says he gives no advice on social media, but he clearly sees how a case could be made that ditching the tweets could be beneficial for his side across the board.
“The economy is humming along, unemployment at historic lows, consumer confidence at historic highs, high school graduation rates higher than ever, teen pregnancy rates lower than ever, crime is down,” Blunt said hours before Trump delivered his State of the Union speech. “You would think that would make for one heck of a great State of the Union speech. And the President may cover all of that. But it is unlikely that will be the top line on newspaper headlines tomorrow.”
Trump did call for unity, and he did extol many of the things Blunt mentioned. But hours earlier, Trump and Democratic Senate Leader Chuck Schumer had traded public insults.
Schumer decried “the fundamental uncertainty of the state of our union,” on the Senate floor. Trump responded by Twitter-mocking the New Yorker for being “just upset that he didn’t win the Senate, after spending a fortune, like he thought he would.”
Blunt, who said Trump’s threat to invoke emergency powers to build a wall was “not helpful” in the congressional negotiations, told the Post-Dispatch he has never asked Trump to reel back the tweets.
“I try to not spend a lot of time (on matters) I can’t do anything about,” Blunt, one of the top ambassadors in Congress for “regular order” in government appropriations, said.
Conference committees meet in Congress all the time to hash out legislative differences, but rarely on ground this unsettling. Trump’s threat to bypass Congress and to declare a national emergency has drawn even Republican opposition, including from Blunt, who has raised concerns about precedent and about Congress’ constitutional role in government spending.
Trump’s pullout from a deal everyone thought was in place as they headed home for Christmas has added to the uncertainty.
“He is difficult if not impossible to negotiate with,” said Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., one of seven senators on the conference committee with Blunt. “And that is not a great start.”
Some Republicans have done a 180 on Trump. Sen. Lindsey Graham, chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called Trump a “kook” and “unfit for office” when both were running for president. Now he’s such a Trump defender he drew a taunting tweet from former Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., now an MSNBC commentator.
“Lord above. What has happened to Lindsay?” McCaskill tweeted, misspelling Graham’s first name. “Everywhere I go, people ask me this question. AFTER Trump was elected Lindsay spoke plainly but privately about disaster in Oval (Office). Now? What the h---? Now President declares emergency when Congress disagrees and it’s hunky dory?”
Lord above. What has happened to Lindsay? Everywhere I go, people ask me this question. AFTER Trump was elected Lindsay spoke plainly but privately about disaster in Oval. Now? What the hell? Now President declares emergency when Congress disagrees and it’s hunky dory? https://t.co/G0UybrQTrA
Graham admitted Trump “can be a handful.”
But he dismissed McCaskill’s tweet as sour grapes over her Senate loss, which he attributed to her voting against Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, while maintaining she was a centrist.
“That’s one of the reasons she’s not here,” Graham said. “Not because of how I changed, but how she changed.
“He has been very disruptive in terms of how Washington works,” Graham said of Trump. “But generally, speaking, if you are a Republican, you like the tax cuts. He has been deregulating. If you are a Republican conservative you like the judicial picks. From a foreign policy point of view, I like rebuilding the military and going on the offense.”
But Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, said Trump as a disrupter “is very bad. and I’ll tell you why.”
“In order for government to run, you have to get to the middle somehow,” he said, predicting that Democrats and Republicans in Congress will forge a border security deal that could override a Trump veto. “You have to get an agreement on the issues that maintain our system of government.
“I am sure we will see a few more temper tantrums from the president,” Clay said about the coming week. “But hopefully the adults in the room will be the members of Congress that will decide it is more important to keep the government open than it is to keep a campaign promise that he can’t keep.”
Rep. Ann Wagner, R-Ballwin, who was one of just 21 House Republicans who voted with Democrats on that party’s plan to keep the government open, said she wished Trump would spend more time on Twitter extolling governing “not as two parties, but as one nation,” as he did in the State of the Union speech.
“This is what I am longing for; this is what America is longing for,” Wagner said.
Follow Chuck Raasch
Follow Chuck Raasch
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
Whenever Chuck Raasch posts new content, you'll get an email delivered to your inbox with a link.
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.
Save
Be informed. Get our free political newsletter featuring local and national updates and analysis.
This field is required.
leave this blank
Fenton Auto Body Inc
Insulation Pros
Animal Care Service
