残り1点（入荷予定あり） 在庫状況 について
数量:
数量:1
カートに入れる
今すぐ買う
カートに入れる
See all 6 images
by
よく見られている商品
このショッピング機能では、継続して項目が読み込まれます。このカルーセル外にナビゲートするには、見出しのショートカットキーを使用して、次または前の見出しに移動してください。
このショッピング機能では、継続して項目が読み込まれます。このカルーセル外にナビゲートするには、見出しのショートカットキーを使用して、次または前の見出しに移動してください。
Apple
Android
Android
商品の説明
内容紹介
A New York Times bestseller!
What do you do when you spot a wild Trump in the election season? New York Times bestselling author and comedian Michael Ian Black has some sage advice for children (and all the rest of us who are scratching our heads in disbelief) in this perfectly timely parody picture book intended for adults that would be hysterical if it wasn’t so true.
The beasty is called an American Trump.
Its skin is bright orange, its figure is plump.
Its fur so complex you might get enveloped.
Its hands though are, sadly, underdeveloped.
The Trump is a curious creature, very often spotted in the wild, but confounding to our youngest citizens. A business mogul, reality TV host, and now…political candidate? Kids (and let’s be honest many adults) might have difficulty discerning just what this thing that’s been dominating news coverage this election cycle is. Could he actually be real? Are those…words coming out of his mouth? Why are his hands so tiny? And perhaps most importantly, what on earth do you do when you encounter an American Trump?
With his signature wit and a classic picture book style, comedian Michael Ian Black introduces those unfamiliar with the Americus Trumpus to his distinguishing features and his mystifying campaign for world domination…sorry…President of the United States.
著者について
Michael Ian Black is a writer, comedian, and actor who currently appears on Another Period, The Jim Gaffigan Show, and Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp. He created and starred in many television series, including Michael and Michael Have Issues, Stella, and The State. He wrote the screenplay for the film Run, Fatboy, Run and wrote and directed the film Wedding Daze. Michael regularly tours the country as a stand-up comedian and is the bestselling author of the book My Custom Van (and 50 Other Mind-Blowing Essays That Will Blow Your Mind All Over Your Face), the memoir You’re Not Doing It Right, and the children’s books Chicken Cheeks, The Purple Kangaroo, A Pig Parade Is a Terrible Idea, I’m Bored, Naked!, and Cock-a-Doodle-Doo-Bop. Michael lives in Connecticut with his wife and two children.
Marc Rosenthal is the New York Times bestselling illustrator of many books for children, including Small Walt by Elizabeth Verdick; I Must Have Bobo, I’ll Save You Bobo, and Bobo the Sailor Man, all by Eileen Rosenthal; The Straight Line Wonder by Mem Fox; and Phooey, which he wrote. Marc’s illustrations can be seen regularly in The New Yorker, Time, Forbes, Fortune, The Atlantic, The New York Times, The Boston Globe, The Washington Post, and others. Visit him online at Marc-Rosenthal.com.
登録情報
言語: 英語
ISBN-10: 1481488007
ISBN-13: 978-1481488006
発売日： 2016/7/5
5つ星のうち1.0So sad
2018年12月5日 - (Amazon.com)
形式: ハードカバー
Why teach hate to children? Regardless of what your political views are, you should teach children to respect the office of the president.
2018年12月6日 - (Amazon.com)
形式: ハードカバー
This book teaches children to disrespect the government and anything they don't agree with. The author is very immature and lacks respect for different points of view. Children should be presented with facts and left to draw their own conclusions.
Amazon Customer
5つ星のうち1.0Horrible book
2018年9月5日 - (Amazon.com)
形式: ハードカバー
This book is horrible. Teaches children to disrespect their president. You don’t have to like the man or woman in office, but you should respect him. This book was disappointing and immature. Didn’t like the lesson it gives kids.
2018年12月2日 - (Amazon.com)
形式: ハードカバーAmazonで購入
Such a clever book with amazing illustrations. I can’t wait until I can read it to my daughter when she asks who the president was when she was born! Lol
Olivia Wilson
5つ星のうち5.0Too funny
2018年12月2日 - (Amazon.com)
形式: ハードカバーAmazonで購入
Incredible book. I can’t stop reading it. Definitely one of our new favorites!
