Managed Investment Company
Our clients are serious investors. They are not interested in gambling with their money, and would rather deal with a reliable and profitable online investment management company instead of a bank with low interest.
How It Works ?
You invest money in your personal online City Of Investment managed Forex account held with a regulated Forex broker, and your money deposit starts trading on Forex. The average monthly profit, generated by our trading system, appears in your City Of Investment account and can be withdrawn or reinvested at any time.
You can use the investment profit calculator to know what profit you can realise on your long term investment in your managed Forex account. You have many investment opportunities, as we have a number of investment packages for you to earn money online.
Professional forex managers with over 25 year’s forex trading experience
We are market leaders in online investment opportunities and provide the highest standards of managed Forex account trading.
We provide retail investors and institutions with exceptional investment opportunities, investment advice, investment research, technology and investment services to access our managed Forex account services.
City Of Investment is best known for our globally recognized online managed Forex accounts. We provide over 5,000 Forex investors from around the world with investment options and ways to earn money online which they need to help them succeed in today’s financial markets.
Our investment management company provides a unique way to earn money online and access the world’s best Forex managed accounts investment opportunities.
We have helped our City Of Investment partners to be part of the 5-trillion-dollar-a-day FX market. We provide our partners with complete managed Forex solutions that enable them to diversify their online investment opportunities and offer the very best Forex managed accounts to their customers, quickly and easily.
Optimise your long term investment with our pioneering automated Forex trading system and connect to our managed Forex account at City Of Investment.
No Forex Trading Skills Required
No Precious Time Required
Minimum Deposit 1000 EUR
Secure: Money Deposited with a Regulated FOREX Broker
Safe: Forex Trading Account in Your Name
Profit Paid and Withdrawn Anytime
Guarantees Safety to Every Client’s Investment
Equity Protection Guaranteed
Low Performance Fee
Beneficial Partnership Conditions
24/7 Customer Support
Shaping the future.
More then 5000 managed Forex investors from 70 countries worldwide
45% - 75% net yearly expected Forex profits
100% satisfied
Justin Blake, UK
For many years I have been in search for a reliable forex managed accounts service to manage my Forex funds in the Forex market. I went through the top 10 Forex managed account companies through the years from 2002 to 2005 with no success in my online investment. I met a property developer in a Mayfair trendy bar and stated I have been looking at the wrong Forex managed accounts services. The property developer disclosed his managed Forex funds trading reports and stated he has been an investor with City Of Investment Forex managed accounts since his time in Dubai. Every year City Of Investment have made Forex profits from his Forex managed accounts yearly. The property developer has no complaints and told me I could do the same and claw back all my previous losses made with other top 10 Forex managed accounts companies.
The property developer was bang on the money. I have not looked back and consider City Of Investment the most reliable forex managed accounts service in the world. Their managed Forex accounts have low minimum deposits of 1000 EUR.
Chris Taylor, UK
I was having difficulty finding a trustworthy Forex investment company to manage my investment. I had already invested with an independent Forex manager in my city Shanghai, China, with very poor results. I did not know what to do. My Real Estate boss overheard my conversation about my failed Forex investment. My boss pointed out he has invested with City Of Investment and the experienced Forex traders from London are making him a fortune. I too then invested with City Of Investment and I have not looked back since. Finally, I am excited and can look forward to the future.
Wei Li, China
I am a young investor and my parents have taught me early in life to make the future I want. So I thought out of the box and have invested with City Of Investment. I looked at the impressive performance history and saw how easy it is to invest online with a few simple steps.  After 15 months of investment, I am satisfied with my returns and I can live the future I want.
+44 843 289 3345
+61 2 9052 0893
(800) 96 8380
