Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Feds don’t know locations of ‘thousands’ more migrant kids, separated from families
The policy of removing children from their families at the border was even more cruel and inhumane than we thought, apparently.
Post to Facebook
Feds don’t know locations of ‘thousands’ more migrant kids, separated from families The policy of removing children from their families at the border was even more cruel and inhumane than we thought, apparently. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2019/02/09/separation-immigrant-families-trump-thousands-column/2805714002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
EJ Montini , Arizona Republic Published 7:00 a.m. ET Feb. 9, 2019
The policy of removing children from their families at the border was even more cruel and inhumane than we thought, apparently.
The child separation "zero tolerance" policy  was even more cruel and inhumane than we thought, apparently, it went on for a lot longer than we thought it did, and the government now says that it may not be possible to completely fix it.
Which means that America may be known as a country that separated thousands of migrant children from their families at the border, doesn't know how many there are out there, and may not be able to reunite them all.
This particular horror came out in a recently released report on the Office of Refugee Resettlement , which has been charged with dealing with the administration's position of family separation.
Read more commentary:
Months ago it was reported that the government did not know the whereabouts of more than a thousand children who were separated from their families and placed into temporary custody with others. Now, it turns out that there could be thousands more children in the same situation.
An inspector general’s report said that children numbering in the thousands may have been separated from their families even before the administration’s "zero tolerance" program went into effect.
According to the report , "The total number of children separated from a parent or guardian by immigration authorities is unknown."
Will some never be reunited?
Imagine that.
Not only does the government not know where all the children are located, but they don't even know how many children we’re talking about. Only that it’s a lot. Maybe thousands more than we thought.
And the manpower and cost of fixing the problem suggest that it's possible some of them may never be reunited with the families from whom they were taken.
A group of children play a board game on the ground at the DeConcini port of entry in Nogales. They're part of a group of 50 migrants waiting for several days to talk to an immigration officer to seek asylum in the United States.
 (Photo: Rafael Carranza/The Republic)
Lee Gelernt, the lead attorney representing families separated under zero tolerance and deputy director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, said, "This policy was a cruel disaster from the start. This report reaffirms that the government never had a clear picture of how many children it ripped from their parents. We will be back in court over this latest revelation."
Last year, the PBS show "Frontline" looked into how it was that the government lost track of the children. In the show  Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, said of the situation , "We've got these kids. They're here. They're living on our soil. And for us to just, you know, assume someone else is going to take care of them and throw them to the wolves, which is what HHS was doing, is flat-out wrong. I don't care what you think about immigration policy, it's wrong."
Congress should intervene
The government office charged with dealing with the problem says that it would need a lot more money and resources to fix the problem completely.
Think about that. We're not talking about roads, military equipment or government buildings. We're talking about children.
The ACLU’s Gelernt said in a statement , "The Trump administration’s response is a shocking concession that it can’t easily find thousands of children it ripped from parents, and doesn’t even think it’s worth the time to locate each of them. The administration also doesn't dispute that separations are ongoing in significant numbers."
Congress should step in and do what’s necessary to make this right. To protect these kids.
This isn't a liberal or conservative problem, a Republican or Democratic problem. It's not even a border problem. It's a humanitarian problem.
As Sen. Portman said , "I don't care what you think about immigration policy, it's wrong."
EJ Montini is a columnist at The Arizona Republic, where this column first appeared . You can follow him on Twitter: @ejmontini. 
You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page , on Twitter @usatodayopinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter . To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com.
The cartoonist’s homepage, www.freep.com/mikethompson
Mike Thompson/Detroit Free Press
Mike Thompson/Detroit Free Press
Mike Thompson /Detroit Free Press
Mike Thompson/Detroit Free Press
The cartoonist's homepage, pnj.com/opinion
Mike Thompson/Detroit Free Press
Marc Murphy, The (Louisville) Courier-Journal
Nathan Archer, Tallahassee Democrat
Mike Thompson, Detroit Free Press
Marshall Ramsey, The (Jackson, Miss.) Clarion-Ledger
Replay
