February 19, 2019
Both sides are spinning the facts in response to President Donald Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Southwest border.
February 16, 2019
In this week’s video, CNN’s Jake Tapper reviews President Donald Trump’s false claim about fact-checkers.
February 15, 2019
In declaring a national emergency at the Southwest border, President Donald Trump strung together a long list of false, misleading and unsupported claims on illegal immigration, drug smuggling, human trafficking, trade deficits and other issues.
February 15, 2019
We explain what the Green New Deal includes — and doesn’t — and why there is confusion over some of the content.
February 14, 2019
The president’s falsehoods on El Paso crime continued, and he misled the crowd on the trade deficit and South Korea’s contribution to U.S. military costs.
February 13, 2019
Sen. Kamala Harris, a declared candidate for president, cited preliminary IRS tax refund data for 2018 to criticize the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as “a middle-class tax hike.” That’s a misreading of the data.
February 12, 2019
President Trump falsely suggested that fact-checkers didn’t hold then-President Barack Obama accountable for his false promise that if you like your health care plan or your doctor, you can keep them under the Affordable Care Act. We wrote as far back as 2009 that Obama couldn’t make that promise to everyone.
February 12, 2019
Democrats have embraced a new talking point: “7 million Americans have become uninsured” under President Donald Trump. That’s backed up by a Gallup survey. So far, one other measure has picked up a statistical change in the uninsured rate, but others haven’t. We’ll go through the numbers.
February 11, 2019
In this week’s fact-checking video, CNN’s Jake Tapper reviews President Donald Trump’s false claim about El Paso’s violent crime rates.
February 8, 2019
A “fact-check” video posted on Sen. Bernie Sanders’ official social media accounts misrepresents employment data in an attempt to prove President Donald Trump “wrong” about the economy. The data actually show employment continues to improve under Trump.
Q: Does the new New York law allow full-term abortions?
A: The law permits abortions after 24 weeks if a health care professional determines the health or life of the mother is at risk, or the fetus is not viable.
© Copyright 2019 FactCheck.org ®
