/
Trump says summit with Kim to take place in Hanoi on Feb 27-28
Trump says summit with Kim to take place in Hanoi on Feb 27-28
US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will meet for a second much-anticipated summit in Hanoi on February 27 and 28, as preparations kick into high gear for the peace talks. The US State Department said the special US envoy for North Korea will meet again with Pyongyang officials ahead of the Trump-Kim talks.
AFP | Updated: Feb 9, 2019, 09:08 IST
In Seoul, a man watches TV news of the announced Trump-Kim meeting in Hanoi later this month (AP photo)
US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will meet for a second much-anticipated summit in Hanoi, as preparations kick into high gear for the peace talks.
Trump announced the exact location on Twitter- only the country, Vietnam , was previously known- for the follow-on to the leaders' summit in Singapore last year as he hailed "very productive" preparatory talks between diplomats from the two countries.
"My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second Summit with Kim Jong Un," Trump said.
"It will take place in Hanoi, Vietnam, on February 27 & 28. I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim & advancing the cause of peace!"
My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for… https://t.co/gWYYV5misV
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1549672425000
"He may surprise some but he won't surprise me, because I have gotten to know him & fully understand how capable he is. North Korea will become a different kind of Rocket - an Economic one!" he added.
North Korea, under the leadership of Kim Jong Un, will become a great Economic Powerhouse. He may surprise some but… https://t.co/XQ9HfkSc3M
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1549673438000
The US State Department said the special US envoy for North Korea will meet again with Pyongyang officials ahead of the Trump-Kim talks- hours after he returned to Seoul from talks in the North on the summit's agenda.
In a statement, the State Department said talks during Stephen Biegun's three-day trip explored Trump and Kim's "commitments of complete denuclearization, transforming US-DPRK relations and building a lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula."
Biegun landed at Osan US Air Base late Friday, foreign ministry spokesman Noh Kyu-duk told AFP.
The State Department confirmed Biegun agreed to meet his North Korean counterpart Kim Hyok Chol again before the leaders' talks.
North Korea has yet to provide any official confirmation of the summit and Kim Jong Un appeared to make no mention of it during a meeting earlier with the top brass of the Korean People's Army.
As reported by state media, the meeting focused on the need to modernize the military while maintaining party discipline in the ranks.
Biegun is expected to share details of his Pyongyang meetings with his South Korean counterpart Lee Do-hoon and Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha on Saturday.
Attention will focus on whether the US team have offered to lift some economic sanctions in return for Pyongyang taking concrete steps toward denuclearization.
Discussions on declaring an end to the 1950-53 Korean War could also have been on the table, with Biegun last week saying Trump was "ready to end this war."
The three-year conflict ended in an armistice, not a peace treaty, leaving the two Koreas still technically at war, with the US keeping 28,500 troops in the South.
The US envoy was also likely to have discussed with his counterpart protocol and security matters for the upcoming Trump-Kim summit.
At their landmark summit in Singapore last year, the mercurial US and North Korean leaders produced a vaguely worded document in which Kim pledged to work towards "the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula."
But progress has since stalled, with the two sides disagreeing over what that means.
Experts say tangible progress on Pyongyang's nuclear weapons will be needed for the second summit if it is to avoid being dismissed as "reality TV."
Dineout GIRF 2019 is live: Get Flat 50% Off at 6000+ restaurants
ReadPost a comment
Characters Remaining: 3000
Continue without login
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.
HIDE
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
more from times of india News
China calls for peaceful talks to resolve Venezuela issue
Fire in Brazil kills at least 10 in Flamengo youth football facility: Reports
