Share Article:
WASHINGTON — President Trump shocked the nation today when he unveiled a new plan which pits 325 million Americans in an all-out fight to the death during his State of the Union address.
“Every man, woman, and child will be forced into squads, which will be randomly generated. Just because you want to be teamed up with your parents doesn’t mean that’s what you’re going to get,” President Trump told the joint session of Congress. “Then, the program ends when either one team is left or not enough people buy season passes. We didn’t even have to figure out a shrinking safe zone — the Chinese hoax, global warming, will take care of that for us.”
The President went on to explain how the program will be “completely paid for” by his robust economic policies that will force Americans to fight over basic needs for survival such as clean water and healthcare.
“China is killing us, folks. They are sniping us from across the map and doing the ‘Take The L’ dance on our try-hard corpses,” The President continued. “But I can fix it. By forcing the country to murder each other, there will be less people buying exports from China. It’s the perfect solution for our very unfair trade deficit. The best part is, folks, the program starts right now and is available for free!”
At press time, Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the administration was almost ready to release a second map set in the entire country of Venezuela.
We’ve launched a brand new podcast network. Check out the first episode of the Hard Drive podcast where we watch and discuss every episode of 1989’s The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!
Hard Times Podcast Network & Patreon
Our new podcast network. Ad free episodes for patrons.
Get the Hard Times in Your Inbox!
Sign up now to get exclusive Hard Times content, plus 20% off our store!
Subscribe
Sponsored Post
Hard Times Podcast Network
By John Danek
By Dan Rice
By Hard Style Staff
Opinion
By Dan Rice on February 7, 2019
Hey, remember three weeks ago when we got into that argument about Socialism? You said that I didn’t have any, as you called it, “empirical data” to back up “wild...
By Dan Rice on February 1, 2019
Let me just say right off the bat that yes, I am aware that television and reality are two different things (except for the news which is like sort of...
By Dan Rice on January 31, 2019
Don’t be such a baby. This is totally safe! My cousin taught me how to do stick n’ poke and she does it all the time! All we need to...
By Dan Kozuh on January 21, 2019
Are all cops bastards? Yes. We know this because it’s been proven by punk’s top researchers. The same researchers who helped answer important questions like, ‘Do They Owe Us a...
Punk News Comin' Your Way!
