Updated 3:05 PM ET, Fri February 8, 2019
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN)
A baby otter found its way home. Police responded to "suspicious characters" in the park. And Ellen DeGeneres shared floodwater footage from her neighborhood. These are the videos you don't want to miss this week.
His slips are all over the map
JUST WATCHED
Trump's mispronunciation in briefing stuns Brooke Baldwin 02:00
President Donald Trump reportedly thought the countries Nepal and Bhutan were in India, mispronouncing them as "Nipple" and "Button" in an intelligence briefing. Twitter users jumped at the chance to spoof his purported mistake. CNN's Brooke Baldwin appeared speechless.
Snow much fun
Watch police and kids have epic snowball fight 01:07
Police rushed to the scene, a riot shield in hand, for a good old-fashioned -- snowball fight! As the Seattle area deals with the most snowfall it has seen in years, some officers spent time sledding and playing with kids.
Read More
Super Bowl MVP has a message for haters 02:22
There are diehard New England Patriots fans ... and then there is everyone else. Patriots wide receiver Julian Edelman spoke to CNN's John Berman about winning the Most Valuable Player award in Super Bowl LIII, taking on those football fans who aren't celebrating his team's latest championship win.
Reunited, and it feels so good
JUST WATCHED
Baby otter adorably reunited with its mother 00:50
Officials played a recording of an otter pup's cry over a speaker to locate its mother. Sound familiar? It's similar to a microphone announcement made when a child is lost in a department store. Fishermen rescued the otter pup after the animal became stranded in Morro Bay, California. Video captured the emotional moments leading up the homecoming.
A street or a river?
JUST WATCHED
Ellen DeGeneres shares video of flood blocking her home 00:37
Ellen DeGeneres tweeted video of a road near her home that was blocked by flooding after heavy rains and mudslides in California. The talk-show host pointed to damage in her neighborhood in Montecito.
U.S.
International
Confirm
U.S.
International
Arabic
Español
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
