MarketWatch, meet Barron's
MarketWatch is pleased to bring you Barron's. You can enjoy full access to Barron's coverage on MarketWatch with a Barron's subscription.
Share
While women have made strides in the workforce, gaps still persist
David M. Russell/Showtime/courtesy Everett Collection
Gains in the health care and education sectors mean that more women have joined the workforce over the last year. But that doesn’t mean they’re on equal footing with men overall.
In his State of the Union address, President Donald Trump said his administration had advanced women’s place in the economy.
Before giving a shout-out to the record number of women in Congress during his speech Tuesday night, Trump made special note of advances women have made in the country’s economy. “No one has benefitted more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58% of the new jobs created in the last year,” Trump said. “All Americans can be proud that we have more women in the workforce than ever before.”
But whether the economy truly treats women as fairly as men — at least where jobs and wages are concerned — remains up for debate.
Trump’s assertion that women accounted for 58% of the new jobs created in the past year is correct. Of the roughly 2.8 million new jobs added since January 2018, 1.6 million (or 58.3%) went to women, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). And the number of women working is indeed the highest it’s ever been, at nearly 74.9 million.
‘There are more women working now than ever before, but that really is just a feature of population growth.’
— Valerie Wilson, director of the Economic Policy Institute’s Program on Race, Ethnicity and the Economy
These facts alone, however, don’t mean that women are getting a fairer shake.
“Anybody in the labor market is going to benefit from job growth,” said Valerie Wilson, director of the Economic Policy Institute’s Program on Race, Ethnicity and the Economy. “There are more women working now than ever before, but that really is just a feature of population growth.”
One statistic Trump did not mention was the labor force participation rate, which is the share of the total population that is available for work. That has largely remained flat for women since he entered office, according to the BLS. Today, only 57.5% of working-age women are employed or unemployed and seeking work, which is down compared with the all-time high of 60.3% in April 2000.
More women are employed because of improvements in certain industries
One reason why women have seen greater job growth over the last year than men: The industries they are more likely to work in have been expanding, said Paul Harrington, a professor and director of the Center for Labor Markets and Policy at Drexel University. Namely, the education and health sectors have been thriving in recent years.
“There’s been a rapid rise in the demand for health services, in part fueled by the aging population and in part because of rising insurance coverage,” Harrington said. Meanwhile, smaller class sizes and higher demand for post-secondary schooling have helped to boost hiring in education.
These trends, Harrington said, show no signs of stopping. He argued that in the next decade women could come to make up a larger share of the workforce than men as a result.
The gender wage gap continues to a problem
While women are getting hired in greater numbers, their pay overall isn’t improving more notably than men’s. In the aggregate, women still earn roughly 82 cents on the dollar compared to men.
The gender wage gap varies, however.
“It’s really concentrated among married women with kids,” Harrington said. “For single women, there’s no male-female wage gap. But for married women, there is and it’s substantial.”
The gender wage gap also varies based on occupation. Women do earn more than men in certain fields. For instance, the median weekly salary among female paralegals and legal assistants is $36 more than the median salary for men in these roles, according to BLS data. At the same time, the median weekly salary for female physicians and surgeons is $836 less than their male colleagues.
The difference here may stem from the fact that women represent a larger share of paralegals and legal assistants (87%) than they do physicians and surgeons (43%). “It certainly should be and is changing as women’s level of education is rising,” said Demetra Nightingale, a fellow at the Urban Institute. “But there still are structural issues of undervaluing occupations where women are concentrated.”
Wages haven’t budged much in recent decades for men or women, Wilson said.
Women of color still grapple with lower pay and higher unemployment rates
For black and Hispanic women, finding a good-paying job is still far more difficult than it is for their white peers.
The unemployment rate for these women has improved more substantially in the past year than it has for white women. The unemployment rate for black women 16 years and older dropped 0.7 percentage points between the fourth quarters of 2017 and 2018 to 5.6%, compared with a 0.2-percentage-point decline for white women.
At the same time, the unemployment rate for white women is just 3.1%, even lower than the national rate of 3.6%, despite the fact that the labor force participation rate is actually higher among black women than white women.
These diverging fortunes are the result of myriad issues, Wilson said. For instance, white women arguably have better access to career advancement opportunities than black women. But Wilson also said it is tied to discrimination in the job market.
Certain policies could level the playing field for women
Economists pointed to a number of policy initiatives the Trump administration could throw its support behind in order to continue advancing women’s status in the economy.
Nightingale argued that many women are denied access to greater career opportunities because of the trade-offs they must make to support their children. “The balance between work and family has always affected women more than men — there’s certainly a need for expanding those work-family policies in a broad way,” she said.
To that end, childcare policies such as paid parental leave could play a major role as an equalizer in the workforce between men and women.
Wage-related policies also could give women a leg up. “There is a lack of transparency around wages and what people in the same job are earning and how that can be different based on your race, ethnicity or gender,” Wilson said.
Laws that require employers to be candid about the salaries for specific roles, Wilson argued, could help workers to identify when they are potentially being discriminated against.
At the same time, Harrington argued that higher pay depends equally on skills attainment. While women have higher educational attainment than men, they aren’t necessarily pursuing majors that lead to jobs in higher-paying fields . “That’s not necessarily labor market discrimination, that’s education discrimination,” he said.
Get a daily roundup of the top reads in personal finance delivered to your inbox. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Personal Finance Daily newsletter. Sign up here.
More from MarketWatch
Jacob Passy
Jacob Passy is a personal-finance reporter for MarketWatch and is based in New York.
We Want to Hear from You
Join the conversation
Most Popular
Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only. Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
