WTC WAS DEMOLISHED
BY HYDROGEN BOMB.
         
WTC towers and WTC7 by 9-11 Zionist Jewish perpetrators.
Dear Dr. Lowenstein of 9-11 Jewish terrorist faction,
1. You really used SMALL TACTICAL PURE HYDROGEN BOMB to demolish WTC towers and killed thousands.
4. DEPLETED URANIUM is an excuse to conceal the use of hydrogen bomb, right?
5. Prof. Jones' THERMITE THEORY is just to avoid people to gaze around H. bomb? Do you worry the world smells Cold fusion?
(By richardkoshimizu)
Documents: CIA Hid Nazis' Locations (CBS News)
Eichmann, Other War Criminals Were Shielded Due To Cold War Security Concerns
Extraordinary similarity between  these 2?  Yes, both are Hydrogen Bomb explosion.
Dear Dr. Lowenstein and other 9-11 Jewish perpetrators of CJA (Covert Jewish Alliance),
Less and less people in the world believe in the official story of WTC collapses prepared by Stealth Jewish government of America and boasted by Zionist Jewish mass media nowadays and many of brighter people starts talking about the controlled demolition by the bombs planted inside WTC1,2 and 7. Even French Le Monde has finally started talking about 9-11 as an inside job on their front page.  I suppose you are indeed in hot water to extinguish this ever-spreading wildfire. My purpose of writing this page is to add fuel to the flames and burn away your long-cherished, brutal plan. You killed thousands of innocent people at WTC and Pentagon just for the sake of your personal benefit and pinned the guilt on Islamic radicals. (In fact some of their leaders including Osama Bin Laden are your trusted dogs, too.)  Moreover, you have sent your fellow stealth Jews of Rockefeller's CFR into 911 Investigation committee to conceal the facts. 9-11 criminals investigated their own crime. Mr. Edward Petruso , I think you did too much. You and your stealth Jewish buddy must not forget some in Far East can not be easily deceived while majority on the earth are already your good and faithful slaves.
Human species are not in the position to forgive you and forget about your barbarous acts. And you are no more allowed to proceed your GREATER ISRAEL plan. We do not accept your ONE WORLD delusion. We will at any cost stop you. It is due for you to give up all the unpardonable plan and spend the rest of your life in the vacation house made of cement and steel bar lattices, or, otherwise, experiment the strength of your neck bones by wearing a looped rope around your neck and jumping down from a chair. Don't worry. The jail will provide you  Kosher foods. Not the barbecued pork. Looped rope would be bold enough to make for your outrageous sin at WTC and Pentagon. (You have an alternative choice of enjoying electrical massage at 2500V. Whichever you like.)
(1) OUTBREAK OF LEUKEMIA AND BRAIN CANCER AMONG WTC RESPONDERS
New Yorker's favorite tabloid paper, New York Post has reported in June 2006 nearly 300 WTC responders including cops, fire fighters and construction workers have been diagnosed with cancer, and 33 of them have already died of cancer. Many of them are diagnosed with Blood Cell cancer such as Leukemia. Earlier in April the same NYP has reported 6 cops died of brain cancer. Americans who know nothing about Hiroshima and Nagasaki would instantly attribute this to airplane fuel's Benzene contents. However, Benzene can usually initiate Kidney cancer and or lung cancer. Then, how about Asbestos? It can cause  mesothelial tumor and lung cancer. Both has got nothing to do with Leukemia and brain cancer.
Meanwhile many of doctors and specialists have given their seal of approval that WTC dust carcinogen poses small cancer risk. These two types of cancer are very familiar to we, Japanese who once experienced the disastereous effect of nuclear bomb's radiation. Neutron ray tends to evoke such disease 5 -1 0 years after his exposure to radiation. The same thing is happening among WTC responders 5 years after their services at Ground Zero. Furthermore, it seems many of the responders are suffering for heart disease, too. And we had the same clinical records among Hiroshima patients. It also indicates the real cause of WTC syndrome.  
It is very unusual that none of major American media reports this serious issue of 8000's class action and it is very likely that Zionist Media are trying not to touch this issue as it can directly unveil the real face of 911 terror. The world would know who the real terrorists were once they know the real reason of these cancer cases. Dr. Yoav Golan of Zionist terrorist faction, I think you have no way to keep it secret any more.
CANCER HITS 283 RESCUERS OF 9/11
By SUSAN EDELMAN
David Worby, a lawyer for 8,000 World Trade Center responders, including cops, firefighters and construction workers, said the cases include blood-cell cancers such as leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin's and myeloma.
Doctors say the cancers can strike three to five years after exposure to toxins such as benzene, a cancer-causing chemical that permeated the WTC site from burning jet fuel.
"One in 150,000 white males under 40 would normally get the type of acute white blood-cell cancer that strikes a healthy detective," said Worby, whose first client was NYPD narcotics cop John Walcott, now 41. Walcott spent months at Ground Zero and the Fresh Kills landfill. The father of three is fighting leukemia.
"We have nearly 35 of these cancers in the family of 50,000 Ground Zero workers. The odds of that occurring are one in hundreds of millions," Worby said.
Others suffer tumors of the tongue, throat, testicles, breast, bladder, kidney, colon, intestines, and lung, said Worby, of Worby, Groner, Edelman, & Napoli, Bern, which filed the class-action suit.
WTC workers who have died of cancer include paramedic Deborah Reeve, 41 (mesothelioma); NYPD Officer Ronald Weintraub, 43 (bile-duct cancer); and Stephen "Rak" Yurek, 46, a Port Authority emergency technician (brain cancer). The families say they were healthy before 9/11.
Dr. Robin Herbert, a director of WTC medical monitoring at Mount Sinai Hospital, said some of the nearly 16,000 responders screened to date are getting cancer.
"We do not know at this point if they are WTC-related, but some are unusual cancers we see as red flags," Herbert said.
Dr. Iris Udasin, principal investigator for the Mount Sinai screening of 500 in New Jersey, said the 9/11 link is "certainly a possibility," she said. "It's what we worry about, and what we fear."
The frightening link between the 9-11 toxic cloud and cancer
New! Wayne Madsen Report  THE NEWS
Sept. 12, 2006 -- According to sources who worked with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at Ground Zero on and after 911, residents of southern Manhattan and rescue and clean-up workers involved in the recovery operations at the site of the former World Trade Center are experiencing an unusually high rate of non-Hodgkin lymphoma -- a cancer that is common among individuals who have been exposed to extremely high levels of ionizing radiation, such as that from nuclear blasts and major nuclear reactor leaks. In addition to the respiratory problems among rescue workers at Ground Zero who breathed toxic "pulverized" concrete and other debris into their lungs, the radiation cancer is of extreme interest to researchers who suspect that the World Trade Center towers and Building 7 were brought down with the help of high energy releases. WMR spoke to a number of individuals who were at Ground Zero on 911 who are now experiencing symptoms resulting from severe damage to their immune systems -- a condition that is common among those exposed to high levels of radiation.
Sources close to FEMA in New York confirmed to WMR that the lymphoma cases are believed to be the result of a release of extremely high levels of radiation from a series of nuclear events on the morning of 911. They believe that explains the reason for the "pulverization" of concrete, molten metals, pyroclastic surges and fallout, and other anomalies resulting from the catastrophe. It was also pointed out that some vehicles parked on the west side of the World Trade Center were "fused" on the sides facing the towers -- the doors being melted into the body frames. Other cars parked nearby were not similarly affected. There is also evidence of explosions and fires on top of the Woolworth Building, three blocks away from the World Trade Center, during the attack on the towers.
FEMA officials from Washington, DC were quick to ban any unofficial photography in southern Manhattan in the weeks following 911. Any photographers who had not received prior permission from FEMA to be in southern Manhattan found their photographic and filming equipment confiscated by the government.
New!   The US Government's Usage of Atomic Bombs - Domestic - WTC  By Ed Ward, MD
6 COPS GOT BRAIN CANCER By CARL CAMPANILE and SUSAN EDELMAN
April 9, 2006 -- An alarming number of 9/11 responders have been stricken with brain cancer - including six NYPD cops, The Post has learned.
At least 11 of the Ground Zero rescue and recovery workers and their families claim in a class-action lawsuit - which includes dozens of other cancer victims - that toxic air and dust caused or triggered the rare, often fatal, brain illness.
Three brain-cancer victims have died, raising the total death toll in a 7,300-plaintiff lawsuit brought by workers and their families to 41, said lead attorney David Worby.
They include Stephen "Rak" Yurek, 46, a Port Authority emergency technician from Bayonne, N.J., who died Dec. 11 after a 16-month illness. He left behind a wife and four children ages 10 to 25.
His widow, Mary Ellen, said he was healthy before his 2004 diagnosis.
"He was never sick a day in his life," she told The Post.
WTC Cleanup Lawsuit: Bayonne Man Died of Cancer in December
By Ronald Leir Jersey Journal Staff Writer
April 1, 2006
.xml&coll=3>
The family of a Bayonne man who participated in the search and recovery effort at the World Trade Center in the  aftermath of the 9/11 attacks and who died of cancer in December, is suing for damages.
"We have a lawsuit," said Mary Ellen Yurek, the widow of Stephen "Rak" Yurek, 47, who was an emergency first responder for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for 23 years. Doctors told Stephen Yurek he had brain cancer in 2004. His widow declined to elaborate, referring questions to the New York law firm of Worby Groner Edelman Napoli & Bern. No one at the firm could be reached for comment yesterday.
In September 2004, Worby Groner filed a class action lawsuit on behalf of more than 800 Ground Zero cleanup workers and others exposed to allegedly lethal toxins. The suit was brought against New York City, the Port Authority, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Kin say WTC killed Mom
EMS worker dies of rare cancer
BY TONY SCLAFANI, DAILY NEWS POLICE BUREAU
A retired FDNY paramedic died Wednesday from cancer that her doctor and family insist was linked to her work at the World Trade Center morgue after the 9/11 attacks.
Debbie Reeve, 41, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx after mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer in her lungs, ravaged her body, leaving her emaciated and unable to walk, her loved ones said yesterday.
NYC: 5,000 in suit over WTC illness
David Knecht, a Lucent Technologies employee, worked for two months to re-establish communications at businesses near Ground Zero. At 35 he was diagnosed with lung cancer and died in March 2005, leaving behind two girls, now ages 3 and 4. His wife Cathleen Knecht, 38, of Berkeley Heights, N.J said "He was a nonsmoker and a swimmer." Knecht was one of many who have claimed to have been sickened with debilitating and potentially deadly ailments related to their presence at the WTC site. Thousands are sick and suffering from respiratory illnesses. Nearly 400 firefighters and paramedics have left the job because of career-ending illnesses that followed their work at Ground Zero.
Another death involved Bob Shore, a city correction officer, who worked at the makeshift morgue at Ground Zero for at least two weeks, wearing only a paper mask. At the end of his first day handling body parts, Shore climbed into the shower fully dressed and cried for two hours. Shore, a 53-year-old father of two died last August from pancreatic cancer. His doctor attributes his disease, which caused the once 300-pound bodybuilder to waste away to 110 pounds and to have his gallbladder, spleen and pancreas removed, to his work at ground zero.
USATODAY.com - Health troubles persist for 9/11 rescue workers
David Worby, a lawyer in White Plains, N.Y., represents about 8,000 clients with health problems who are suing supervisors, the EPA, the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, contractors and others involved in the cleanup. He says more than 50 families have lost loved ones due to their Twin Towers work. No trial dates have been set.
"There are thousands of people who will get cancer and will die from this, and the government isn't doing anything," Worby says. "Every week I get one or two calls from a cop saying, 'What do I do for my wife and kids? I've just been diagnosed with leukemia or sarcoidosis (an inflammation that creates scar tissue, often in the lungs).' "
THE JOURNAL NEWS
spcohen@lohud.com
David Worby is now at the helm of what he calls the largest and most important class-action lawsuit in U.S. history, representing thousands of people he says are dying at an accelerated pace from exposure to toxins at Ground Zero.
He says a national health emergency should be declared because his 8,000 clients are developing cancer, kidney and respiratory ailments in the nearly five years since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
Study: WTC dust carcinogen poses small cancer risk
BY KATHLEEN KERR
Researchers calculated the cancer risk due to the carcinogen exposure over 70 years would increase from a normal 0.157 cases per million people to 0.167.
"Any elevation in cancer risk from PAH exposure should be very small among nonoccupationally exposed residents of NYC," according to the report, in this week's issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
"Even though the [PAH] levels were pretty high [at the beginning of the sampling period], they were only high for a short time," said lead researcher Stephen Rappaport, a professor of environmental health at the University of North Carolina. "Cancer is a disease that takes a long time to develop. It also requires a large exposure."
WTC Dust May Not Increase Cancer Risk
By Liz Szabo, USA TODAY
WTC Rescuers Not Exposed to Toxics Friday, May 31, 2002
By Steven Milloy
2) ANY DEPLETED URANIUM AT WTC?
What is the cause of the large outbreak of cancer? You may quickly blame on Depleted Uranium that might be used in the suicide airplanes, however, Boeing already confirmed they now use Tungsten instead of D.U. Though Boeing did use D.U. as counter-weight on B747 and older models, most of them had been already replaced with Tungsten by Boeing. And WTC planes were newer models. So, there was no D.U. counter-weights loaded on the planes.
You might believe the airplanes were remote controlled, modified, military planes that shot missile just before the impacts. (If you think so, you can be much better than other morons. As for remote controlled plane , a Zionist Radical who is a U.S.-Israel dual citizenship person in Bush Admin. is specialized. He knows how to hit WTC with unmanned planes without any Arab trainee pilots. ) And these planes and missiles might have been loaded with Depleted Uranium?
However, D.U. still cannot cause Leukemia and Brain cancer. D.U.'s alpha ray can sometimes increase the risk of kidney cancer and lung cancer in some cases. And the risk of Leukemia and Brain cancer is almost none. I know you will immediately oppose me by saying there are many Leukemia cases in Afghanistan and Iraq where D.U. was used. And I will later explain you how U.S. government use D.U. to conceal the real reason of radiation-initiated cancer such as Leukemia. D.U. is a scapegoat to avoid people to look at other WMD secretly used by U.S. Forces. (...and some by Israeli.)
D.U.'s radiation level is much lower than those used in the medical treatments such as Bedrock Bath or Radon inhalation remedy. In fact Dr. Thomas D. Luckey of University of Missouri has established the theory of Radiation Hormesis in which he claims low doses of radiation would decrease cancer mortality and would promote human health. It is nothing ridiculous to discuss about Depleted Uranium as an health tip. Keeping a D.U. bullets at your bedside could make you healthier.
If you want stronger effect, then, burn D.U. and inhale the airborne droplets. (You may oppose me that inhaling such droplet could have caused Leukemia among Gulf War Veterans, however, I would oppose you by saying none was diagnosed with cancer when they inhaled the D.U. droplets created by cargo plane crush and fire at Amsterdam in 1992.) Leukemia and brain cancer cases among WTC responders has got nothing to do with D.U.
NYC, PENTAGON AREA MAY BE RADIOACTIVE
From: Bill Smirnow
airplanes [Depleted Uranium] that may have caught fire [probably].
Has anyone done and/or is anyone interested in getting out their Radalert or other rad monitoring device and measuring
and testing radiation levels at:
1. Near The Former World Trade Center [In Manhattan or any of the other 4 NYC boroughs and Northern New Jersey]
2. Near The Pentagon
3. At or Near Shanksville, Pennsylvania where Flight 93 crashed?
Detonations And Deceit
DEPLETED URANIUM
Uranium Radiation Levels in Afghanistan Not Attributable to Depleted Uranium
1. Unanticipated outcomes of the 2002 Afghan civilian studies
Radiological measurements of the uranium concentrations in Afghan civilians’ urine samples indicate abnormally high levels of non-depleted uranium. Radiological measurements of Afghan civilians’ have high concentrations of uranium in a range beginning at 4 X’s and reaching to over 20 X’s normal populations. This is 400% to 2000% higher than the study controls and normal population baselines of the concentrations of nanograms of uranium per liter of urine in a 24-hour sample. UMRC has completed initial but still preliminary studies that corroborate these finding in biological controls and geological samples taken in Operation Enduring Freedom bombsites.
3) A SMALL HYDROGEN BOMB EXPLODED AT WTC BASEMENT :
Official version of WTC collapse theory fabricated by stealth Jewish Bush Administration is believed by nobody in Japan except by those Zionist Jew's ethnic Korean comrades at Soka Gakkai and Unification Church who pretend to be royal to your official story, therefore, we do not have to start our discussion from that official lies. Airplane fuel never can demolish WTC. And that there is no reason for WTC7 to collapse itself. Not necessary to argue on this point as we are not morons like the majority of rooters of Republican Party who still do not even know G. W. Bush's Jewish ancestry.  
Nothing but Small Tactical Pure Hydrogen Bomb can demolish the whole WTC buildings, pulverizes the concrete into fine particles, creates the molten steel pools at WTC basements and causes the earthquake of Magnitude 2.1. However, almost all would not instantly agree with this H.bomb theory. Therefore, thorough explanation will be given to those as follows:-
A small tactical pure hydrogen bomb placed at the basement of WTC and WTC7 could have been exploded upward, then, steel structures absorb the extremely high heat and instantly evaporated or get melted. Thus, WTC start loosing the steel supports from bottom to top gradually while the explosion is moving upward. (See the left drawing by rense com. )
4) PHREATIC EXPLOSION TO PULVERIZE CONCRETE INTO 70-300 MICRON PARTICLES :
The extremely high heat created by Hydrogen bomb caused phreatic explosion of water content of concretes used at WTC resulting to the huge blast of pulverized 70 - 300 micron particles. 
Nothing but the 10 Million Deg. C. heat created by Hydrogen bomb can process the concrete in this form.
5) MOLTEN STEEL POOLS EXIST AT WTC BASEMENT EVEN MONTHS AFTER 9-11 :
The molten steels naturally fall down by gravitation and puddle at the basement of WTC. And such molten steel pool was found even months after 9-11. Peter Tully, president of Tully Construction as well as Mark Loizeaux, president of Controlled Demolition, Inc. who were contracted after 9-11 for removing the debris have admitted the existence of "literally molten steel".  Melting point of steel is 1585 deg. C, therefore, it would remain in liquid form for months after being heated at 10,000,000 deg. C. by hydrogen bomb explosion. A photo taken 5-6 weeks after 9-11 clearly shows hot, molten steel being removed by a power shovel. The same molten steel pool was found at the basement of WTC7 according to Mark Loizeaux. Thus, we should consider WTC7 collapsed due to the same reason as WTC towers did. Did Osama bin Laden do it? Such a stale joke is not pleased by any while cleverer people agree that this was done by Osama's superiors at a covert Jewish syndicate. Am not I right, Dr. Lowenstein?  Well, how are Osama's Jewish relatives doing in Israel?
6) LOOKS LIKE A CONTROLLED DEMOLITION BUT WITH DIFFERENT BOMB :
When the steel structure get melted starting from the bottom, then, toward the top of the building , the building looses support and would gradually "get shortened" or "get disappeared". How does it look like? A perfect example of hydrogen bomb style demolition is available at WTC7. See the left GIF.
Some may consider the ordinary controlled demolition method could have been applied at WTC, however, it does not explain existence of molten steel pools at the basements and pulverization of the concrete blocks into 70-300 micron. Moreover, it would be almost impossible to secretly plant plenty of explosives inside WTC without being known by third parties. However, it is understood such iron bombs could have been also used to destroy certain structure of WTC in order to make sure its collapse.
7) ANY OTHER TYPE OF NUCLEAR BOMB USED?
One may consider ordinary nuclear bomb might have been used to demolish WTC, however, one would realize it would be hard to conceal the use of nuclear bomb as far as there is any residual radioactive.
Conventional Plutonium bomb like one used in Nagasaki will discharge huge amount of Plutonium at explosion. What we call mini-nuke would use much less Plutonium and Uranium, however, it still creates the same residual of radioactive, too. Neutron bomb will discharge much Neutron and results in immediate loss of many lives in the wide area. Conventional Hydrogen bomb is ignited by the explosion of atomic bomb which still contaminate the surroundings with radioactive. Therefore use of such nuclear bomb will be immediately known to the public. Thus, all of these does not fit WTC's case and phenomenon. Only when SMALL TACTICAL PURE HYDROGEN BOMB is used, there would be no residual radioactive, thus, sometimes hard to detect its use. This bomb is therefore, called "CLEAN NUCLEAR BOMB". 
8) WHY PURE HYDROGEN BOMB?
Conventional hydrogen bomb would discharge radioactive at explosion while pure hydrogen bomb is ignited with alternative heating media such as laser beam, magnetic field or plasma. Since no atomic bomb is used to ignite, no radioactive will be produced. However, nuclear radiation itself is emitted at the ignition, thus, may still cause human hazard due to the emission of alpha, beta, gamma ray as well as Neutron ray. But, such emission would be quickly diminished in a short period and may not be detected a few days after 9-11. This type of so called HOT FUSION is so far not confirmed of its fulfillment and existence as of today though many of the developed nation are making further research. And very huge facility would be needed to accomplish it. And such huge device cannot be placed in the basement of WTC without being known to the public. Then, how did you ignite the Hydrogen bomb, Dr. David Goldstein ? It seems we 'd better ask Professor Jones how he did it.
9) 1600 BODIES VAPORIZED AT WTC
After 911, the corpse of victims had been searched at the site.  Dr. Charles Hirsch , the chief medical examiner, had tried to locate them as they should be at least found in parts. However, he could not trace any sign of 1600 victims. He told the family of the victims that many bodies – no one is sure how many – had been "vaporized" and were beyond identification. Yes, bodies were vaporized. If a hydrogen bomb is detonated at the basement of WTC, its extremely high heat will instantly vaporize the bodies and change them into heat and light. The thick, grey cloud of explosion at WTC could have contained those 1600 victims in the form of atmosphere.
WTC Victims May Have Been 'Vaporized'
Many victims will undoubtedly be identified. Nearly 10,000 body parts have been pulled from the mountains of mangled metal and  matchstick-size splinters at ground zero.
But Dr. Charles Hirsch, the chief medical examiner, triggered an angry response two weeks ago when he told grieving relatives that many bodies – no one is sure how many – had been "vaporized" and were beyond identification.
10) RUBBLES CARRIED OUT BEFORE INVESTIGATION
After 911, wrecking companies immediately entered the sites and carried out the rubbles to Staten Island for 3 months. During such period, nobody else could have been allowed to enter the site to investigate the reason of the collapses. Mr. Rachimim Deora , did you arrange to erase the evidence of hydrogen bomb? Once hydrogen bomb is detonated, it will produce radiation isotope and decay product that would indicate the use of hydrogen bomb. Moreover, one who found the sign of molten or vaporized steel in rubbles, he would recall the heat of hydrogen bomb. Therefore, you have quickly evacuated all the evidential rubbles. Otherwise, I should say you have arranged such destruction of evidence prior to the 911 in advance. Am I right?
11) THERMITE THEORY IS TO AVOID PEOPLE TO GAZE AROUND HYDROGEN BOMB THEORY?
Mr. Edward Petruso , it seems you have employed Professor Jones of BYU, Uta to explain away the collapse of WTC in Thermite theory. Your most concern is how to explain existence of the molten steel pools at the basements, right? It is true Thermite may produce enough high temperature to melt the steel and even sometimes evaporates the steel, therefore, Professor might have tried to impress people that this was the real reason for WTC's collapse. However, it will be necessary to bring huge amount of chemicals such as Iron Oxide and place them at many position of WTC. It is impossible to do so while many people are working in the building.
Another thing I noticed is that people who supports Thermite theory always refer to the simultaneous use of Sulfur as combustion promoting agent. However, Sulfuric acid is produced when Neutron ray is emitted, thus, the, shade of the explosion becomes brownish. Those people are trying to explain the existence of Sulfuric Acid in WTC by Thermite theory though it was actually created by the Hydrogen bomb's explosion.  
We, Japanese strongly believe Professor was hired by Jewish 9-11 perpetrators and his task is to avoid people to hang around "HYDROGEN BOMB" theory. Is that right, Mr. Bob Sandall ?  If it is found hydrogen bombs were used at WTC,  it directly means 9-11 was an inside job. (It is indeed a inside job without doubt. As you know well.) Therefore, Professor was nominated to let people look at different and wrong direction of Thermite theory. Right? BYU is a university of Mormon Church. We know its close relationship with Jewish Mega Power. Founder of the church was a Jewish who converted to a Christian. But, we know many Jewish ostensibly do so and still maintain their old faith within their closed society.
And Dr. Jones is a prophet who insists on Jesus Christ's visit to American Continent, too. His another function is to make "Self-controlled demolition theory" nonsense.
The neutron radiation forms sulfuric acid in the air, which primarily causes the brown color of the air I mentioned. Because you probably mean the sulfur found in the steel, this hydrogen bomb did not cause that. It has to do with demolition charges used by the US military[/Army?], that can be called thermite-based. But ordinary thermite would not contain sulfur.
All 911 truth seekers appreciate your current contributions toward proving WTC demolition even though explosives and demolitions are not your field of expertise.
However, while I believe that thermate may have been used to initiate the collapse in conjunction with cutting charges such as RDX, it cannot begin to explain the observed evidence at the WTC and therefore I feel that we must now include fusion devices as well in our demolition hypothesis and research.
The significance of this line of research is that while thermate alone could be blamed on a small group of individuals impossible to identify, fusion devices can only be supplied by the US and/or Israeli military, according to a Finnish military expert I have consulted.
I would appreciate your expert comments, and those of other qualified 911 scholars, on the hypothesis that directed energy fusion devices were used at the WTC.
For the benefit of those in this mailing list not familiar with fusion, it is the nuclear reaction of hydrogen taking place in the sun and does not produce the same radioactive "fallout" as "fission" reactions with uranium and plutonium.
Fusion radiation is short lived, approx. 7-12 hours, can only be detected by $40,000 instruments, and is contained by the continuous spraying of water. Telltale byproducts that do not normally occur in nature are Tritium and atomic size metals, both recorded in official studies and subsequently ignored by "experts."
Funding for gradual conversion of the US nuclear arsenal to fusion devices was recently approved. This would allow the mini-nukes practical use in wars and troops to control the sites afterward. Official statements said that testing would not be necessary. I would submit that testing already occurred at the WTC.
Evidence of fusion devices at the WTC:
1. pulverization of 99% of concrete into ultra fine dust as recorded by official studies. Concrete dust was created instantly throughout the towers when the fusion device million degree heat rapidly expanded water vapor in the concrete floors.
2. Superheated steels ablating (vaporizing continuously as they fall) as seen in video clips of the towers collapsing. This requires uniform temperatures roughly twice that of thermate.
3. 22 ton outer wall steel sections ejected 200 meters into the winter garden. Cutting charges cannot provide the energy required.
4. 330 ton section of outer wall columns ripping off side of tower. Cutting charges cannot provide energy required.
5. Molten ponds of steel at the bottom of elevator shafts (WTC1, WTC2, WTC7) Thermate is impractical for lower level demolition due to the thickness of the 47 steel columns.
6. The spire behavior (stands for 20-30 seconds, evaporates, goes down, steel dust remains)
7. Sharp spikes in seismograph readings (Richter 2.1 and 2.3) occurred at the beginning of collapse for both towers. Short duration and high power indicate explosive event.
8. A press weighting 50 tons disappeared from a basement floor of Twin Towers and was never recovered from debris.
9. Wide area electrical outage, repairs took over 3 months. Fusion devices cause EM pulse with Compton Effect.
10. Fires took 100 days to extinguish despite continuous spraying of water. Thermate would cool down much faster.
11. Brown shades of color in the air due nuclear radiation forming sulfuric acid. TV and documentary footage changed the color balance to blue to disguise this fact indicating complicity in the coverup.
12. Elevated Tritium values measured in the WTC area but not elsewhere in New York. Official studies stated that 8 EXIT signs from two commercial Boeing jets were responsible. This is why the "no commercial planes" line of inquiry is very important and should not be ignored or attacked. It can provide conclusive proof of fusion devices and therefore US/Israeli military involvement.
13. Pyroclastic flow observed in the concrete-based clouds. Only found with volcanic eruptions and nuclear detonations. Jim Hoffman unfortunately missed this obvious observation in his papers.
14. Huge expanding dust clouds 5 times the volume of the building indicating extreme levels of heat generated far in excess of traditional demolition explosives.
15. Rubble height was some 10% of the original instead of 33% expected in a traditional demolition. Fusion device removal of underground central steel framework allowed upper framework to fall into this empty space and reduce the rubble height.
16. No survivors found, except some firefighters in one corner pocket in the rubble who looked up to see blue sky above them instead of being crushed by collapsing debris. Upward fusion flashlight beam of destruction missed this pocket but removed debris above firemen.
17. 14 rescue dogs and some rescue workers died far too soon afterward to be attributed to asbestos or dust toxins (respiratory problems due to alpha particles created by fusion that are far more toxic)
18. Record concentrations of near-atomic size metal particles found in dust studies due to ablated steel. Only possible with fusion.
19. Decontamination procedure used at Ground Zero (hi-pressure water spraying) for all steel removed from site. Water spraying contains fusion radiactivity.
20. No bodies, furniture or computers found in the rubble, but intact sheets of paper covered the streets with fine dust. Items with significant mass absorbed fusion energy and were vaporized while paper did not. Paper and Powder theory.
21. 200 000 gallon sprinkler watertanks on the roofs of WTC1 and WTC2, but no water in the ruins. Heat of fusion devices vaporized large reservoirs of water.
22. reports of cars exploding around the WTC and many burned out wrecks could be seen that had not been hit by debris. Fusion energy blast and EM pulse caused electrical components in cars to explode and burn vehicles far from WTC site.
23. EM pulse was recorded by broadcast cameras with high quality electronic circuitry. This occurred at the same time as the seismic peaks recorded by Lamont Doherty during the beginning of the collapse. This is due to the Compton Effect and resulted in a large area power outage at the WTC.
I sincerely hope that you will help me refine this hypothesis using your expertise in the field of fusion. Statistical probability would suggest that this long list of evidence cannot be easily dismissed and in fact provides the solution to the WTC demolitions.
I would also appreciate your comments on my seven laws of science in the 911 Eyewitness DVD in order to improve our presentation.
Please feel free to use any segments from our DVD in your presentations.
I would also like to take this opportunity to invite you and other 911 scholars to speak in Washington DC this Sept. 11 anniversary and have your grievances redressed as is your constitutional right according to the first amendment. Your presence at the Capital would certainly make a significant statement to those who have the power to change the current state of affairs.
Best regards,
David Shaw
12) MAGNITUDE 2.1 EARTHQUAKE JUST BEFORE WTC COLLAPSE
Seismic wave of Magnitude 2.1 was recorded by Columbia University just prior to the collapse of both WTC towers. Its remarkable characteristic was extremely high spike that is peculiar to those caused by nuclear bomb explosion. It can be attributed to H. bomb, but not to Thermite or the gravitational collapse. (This seismic wave was also recorded at the first WTC bombing in 1993. A typical phenomenon at the time of hydrogen bomb test.)
Seismic data shows explosive peaks and 3D seismic fingerprint
13) ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC FAILURE
Power blackout, telephone line failure, GSM cellular phone failure at Manhattan area was reported on and after 9-11. Firemen's walky-talky did not work, therefore, Commander could not tell them to evacuate from WTC1 after South Tower was collapsed. Digital camera and video recorded strange afterglow. All these can be instantly attributed to the electro-magnetic pulse caused by H. bomb while nothing to do with Thermite. It's a pity David Knecht died of lung cancer at the age of 35 who worked for two months to re-establish communications at businesses near Ground Zero. 9-11 perpetrators killed him.
NYC: 5,000 in suit over WTC illness
David Knecht, a Lucent Technologies employee, worked for two months to re-establish communications at businesses near Ground Zero. At 35 he was diagnosed with lung cancer and died in March 2005, leaving behind two girls, now ages 3 and 4. His wife Cathleen Knecht, 38, of Berkeley Heights, N.J said "He was a nonsmoker and a swimmer." Knecht was one of many who have claimed to have been sickened with debilitating and potentially deadly ailments related to their presence at the WTC site. Thousands are sick and suffering from respiratory illnesses. Nearly 400 firefighters and paramedics have left the job because of career-ending illnesses that followed their work at Ground Zero.
Another death involved Bob Shore, a city correction officer, who worked at the makeshift morgue at Ground Zero for at least two weeks, wearing only a paper mask. At the end of his first day handling body parts, Shore climbed into the shower fully dressed and cried for two hours. Shore, a 53-year-old father of two died last August from pancreatic cancer. His doctor attributes his disease, which caused the once 300-pound bodybuilder to waste away to 110 pounds and to have his gallbladder, spleen and pancreas removed, to his work at ground zero.
14) POWER BLACKOUT AT WTC OUT PRIOR TO 911
Mr. David PArker , if you were to bring the hydrogen bomb into WTC and set it at its basement, it would involve many workers who frequently go in and out and would be rather difficult to hide the job from third party's eye. Then, it seems you have arranged a power blackout on September 8 and 9. During these 2 days, both security lock and security camera were not in service. You could conceal your site job to plant the bomb inside. Right? Furthermore, the contractor in charge of supplying and setting WTC's security equipments belong to G. W. Bush's youngest brother . So you all stealth Jewish could freely proceed your terrorist activities.    
Heightened Security Alert Had Just Been Lifted
The World Trade Center was destroyed just days after a heightened security alert was lifted at the landmark 110-story towers, security personnel said yesterday.
Daria Coard, 37, a guard at Tower One, said the security detail had been working 12-hour shifts for the past two weeks because of numerous phone threats. But on Thursday, bomb- sniffing dogs were abruptly removed.
Bush-Linked Company Handled Security for the WTC, Dulles and United
by Margie Burns
George W. Bush's brother was on the board of directors of a company providing electronic security for the World Trade Center, Dulles International Airport and United Airlines, according to public records. The company was backed by an investment firm, the Kuwait-American Corp., also linked for years to the Bush family.
The security company, formerly named Securacom and now named Stratesec, is in Sterling, Va.. Its CEO, Barry McDaniel, said the company had a ``completion contract" to handle some of the security at the World Trade Center ``up to the day the buildings fell down."
It also had a three-year contract to maintain electronic security systems at Dulles Airport, according to a Dulles contracting official. Securacom/Stratesec also handled some security for United Airlines in the 1990s, according to McDaniel, but it had been completed before his arriving on the board in 1998.
15) HOW DID YOU SOLVE NUCLEAR FUSION DIFFICULTY?
Mr. Zack Parsons, editor of somethingawful, your beloved Professor Jones who proposed Thermite thesis is originally a scientist specialized in low energy nuclear reaction (LENR) i.e., COLD FUSION, right? This fact makes us very curious. If LENR is really applicable as of today, it instantly means it can be applied to ignite nuclear fusion at pure Hydrogen bombs. It can be a small. compact device easily hidden in the basement of WTC. It can be even loaded on Bunker Buster Bomb. And we suspect Professor's real intension of bloviating Thermite thesis was to keep people away from the relationship between Hydrogen bomb and LENR. Is my imagination not too far? Did Professor Jones really manage to develop Cold Fusion technology?  
16) WTC SYNDROME, A MERE RADIATION HAZARD DUE TO RADIOISOTOPE?
People in N.Y. are making big noises for their bad health condition after 9-11 and they are explained that it was because of dust, fume and chemical they inhaled during WTC attacks. However, many have found the similarity of its symptoms with Gulf War Syndrome that was believed to be caused by D.U. "According to Sally Ann Lederman, Ph.D., of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health, who studied 300 non-smoking pregnant women in the New York Metropolitan area, pregnant at the time of the disaster, about 44% of the women who lived or worked within two miles of the World Trade Canter had babies who were smaller and with significantly lower birth weight than infants born to those further away. Infants born to those mothers who were in their first three months of pregnancy during the terrorist attack were born significantly earlier than infants whose mothers were at a later stage of pregnancy during the attacks." ( D epleted Uranium and other Toxic Exposures by Rosalie Bertell, Ph.D., GNSH  24 April 2005)  This strongly suggests RADIATION DAMAGE. There are many report of detected radiation both at WTC and Pentagon just after 9-11.
So, some believes the planes were loaded with D.U., i.e., Depleted Uranium ammunition or Missile of D.U. armored was used. However, the similar disease can be caused by hydrogen bombs.
 Beside cancer patients among WTC responders, thousands of others are suffering for respiratory problem. They indeed have difficulty to breath. What is causing it? WTC dust is the one? Then, what element of the dust?  Pure Hydrogen bomb creates radioisotope of Tritium. Such Tritium would be attached with the iron particles contained in the dust. Once human inhales such dust, Tritium would be retained in the respiratory organ and keep on irradiating Beta ray. The human will suffer for respiratory problem. Tritium's half-life radioactive is 12.3 years. 40,000 patients among policemen and firefighters are the evidence of the use of hydrogen bomb. Tritium can instantly cause radiation hazards on human. Then, naturally people would suspect use of nuclear bombs, but, will be kept silent as far as D.U. is given as a source of radiation.  Have you arranged to educate people to focus on D.U. and never think of others like nuclear bombs, Dr. Lowenstein ?
“MYSTERY DISEASE” AFFECTS NEW YORKERS IN WAKE OF 911 ATTACKS
SIMILARITIES DRAWN BETWEEN MYSTERY DISEASE AND GULF WAR SYNDROME
 As the fifth anniversary of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington D.C. approaches, thousands of those, either in the vicinity of the World Trade Center that day, or who took part in the rescue and cleanup that followed, are coming down with a respiratory disease that is making them sicker than sick.
For those affected, the wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and nasty hacking cough are much like asthma. In fact, most cases are being diagnosed as just that. The flaw in this argument and the reason that it cries out for more scrutiny is that prior to that day most of those now reporting symptoms were asthma free.
Interesting, isn’t it? But as is to be expected, little is being done to get to the bottom of this matter, though this will probably change now that a high profile New York citizen is affected.
17) UNUSUAL LEVEL OF RADIATION IS DETECTED AT WTC.
It was reported that unusual level of radiation was detected at WTC and Pentagon after 9-11. However, no further investigation and report was made. Radiation is emitted when hydrogen bomb is activated though there is no radioactive itself. However, its level is rather low, therefore, Geiger Mullar counter would indicate a slight increase of radiation value. Meanwhile University of California found elevated values of Tritium on 9/13 and 9/21 within bounds of the WTC. In pure hydrogen bomb isotopes of hydrogen are fused. Tritium is a evidence of H.bomb explosion. Ordinary Geiger Mullar Counters would not detect Neutron ray while Pure Hydrogen Bomb's major source of radiation is Neutron. No one can feel it and detect it.    
Unusual level of radiation reported at WTC and Pentagon on and after 9-11.
2. Radiation Expert Claims High-Radiation Readings Near Pentagon After 9/11 Indicate Depleted Uranium Used; Also Geiger counter readings right after the attack shows high levels of radiation 12 miles away from Pentagon crash site.
3. The first time someone attempted to bring down the WTC, allegedly with a truck bomb, I heard an elderly nuke scientist, Galen Windsor, tell on a talk show (not Art Bell's--I doubt he'd ever be invited to that show) that he went there right after the event and saw guys in radiation-protection suits all over the crime scene. His Geiger counter recorded a lot of residual radiation at the closest point he could get..
4. 5) Elevated values of tritium in this area, but not elsewhere in New York. The University of California found elevated values on 9/13/2001 and 9/21/2001 within bounds of the WTC. They found them harmless for health. In pure hydrogen bomb isotopes of hydrogen are fused (D + T > n + a + 17.6 MeV).
 18) WAS HYDROGEN BOMBS USED WHERE D.U. WAS USED?
The similar disease is reported among Gulf War veterans, Iraqi citizens, returned soldiers from Iraq and WTC survivors. And Depleted Uranium ammunition is always blamed. Dr. Lowenstein, is D.U. really a reason for these sickness? Could we suspect you used Pure Hydrogen Bomb at Gulf War, Iraq war and 9-11 attacks?  Did you purposely use D.U. to hide the use of H. Bomb at all these destination? Did you, Dr. Lowenstein?  In Bali, Joe Vialls found crater on the ground. He also reported dozens of victim were vaporized. And has his report on Bali bombing shortened his life, Mr. Goldstein? 
Detonations And Deceit
Micronuclear Devices Used in OKC Bombing: Explosives Placed by
Dr. Bill Deagle MD | September 8 2004
Zionists Nuke Downtown Beirut - Again!
this page.
On 18 April 1983, Zionists bombed the American Embassy in Beirut, killing 63 people. Then on 23 October the same year, Jewish 'Special Forces' war criminals detonated two Dimona micro-nukes outside the American and French marine barracks in Beirut, killing 241 and 58 soldiers respectively. As with the murder of Rafik Hariri in 2005, western media outlets tried to 'false flag' Hezbollah and Syria for the atrocities. Ground Zero in Beirut after micro-nuke detonation on Monday. Crater diameter is 32 feet, and judging by
the angle of its exposed sides, has a total depth of between 12 and 14 feet. The flat light grey matter in the center of the crater is actually flotsam floating on seawater.
Bali Micro Nuke - Lack of Radiation Confuses "Experts"
from tim johnston in kuta, bali
Detonations And Deceit
After sending these musings to some friends, and people on my lists, one of them wrote me back saying:
"Hi, My brother is an ex-Marine (I know - no such thing). He told me months ago (rather casually, I'm afraid) - when we were arguing over the phone about Bush possibly using nukes on Iraq - that these were just low- grade depleted uranium nukes they were talking about using - NOT the mushroom-cloud generating nukes that we traditionally think of when we talk about nukes - e.g., the ones that were used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki... Besides, he told me - the US had ALREADY used many of these low-grade depleted uranium nukes in Iraq, during the FIRST Persian Gulf war, back in the early 90's. He seemed to believe that this
was common knowledge amongst the military, and most ex-military personnel. He said the only difference between Bush I and Bush II was that Bush II was being straight up front about the use of these weapons (as if that was something to commend him for...!!!).
So - I'm very inclined to believe this piece of scoop."
To which I replied:
"Thank you for sharing with us this insight of a man on the spot. Please thank your brother too.
I am quite certain that your brother has had solid information that nuclear weapons were used, especially in the landings on the Kuwaiti shore, see below.
"However, I believe your brother was referring to a LOW-YIELD Nuclear Weapon, rather than a LOW-GRADE weapon?
"It is almost impossible to get a fission reaction going with U-238 except under immense neutron flux, it being, under normal conditions, a FISSIONABLE material, but NOT a FISSILE material, the latter class being capable of spontaneous fission under certain quantitative and kinetic material density increases and other considerations, as is possible with the traditional U-235 and Plutonium-239.
"However, U-238 or so-called "Depleted Uranium", i.e., U-238 fairly leached of its fissile U-235 content, IS fissionable under heavy neutron flux, which jumps it up into Plutonium 239 when it is deliberately used for the casing on the FUSION aggregate of a thermonulear weapon (Hydrogen Bomb). "What I believe your brother meant, are LOW-YIELD nuclear weapons, i.e., of (relatively) low energy output, (between a few tons' and a few hundred tons' TNT-equivalent) which, due to clever design, such as the use of Red Mercury or Mercuric-Stibic Heptoxide (Hg2Sb2O7) as carrier and tamper for Pu-239 incorporated into its crystalline structure, combined with electromagnetic implosion using heavy fields generated by FCGs (Flux-Compression (explosive) Generators), can make even relatively miniscule amounts of Pu-239 fission, and are also much more efficient in the percentage of fissile material they manage to fission when they are initiated, so fallout is low, and the "Neutron Bomb" which is something like a very small nuke, produces a high-density neutron flux which can penetrate armor and also underground facilities and killed, most likely, the Iraqi soldiers in their dugouts in Kuwait, before they were bulldozed over.
19) HOW DID YOU MANAGE TO CONTROL EFFECT AND DIRECTION OF H. BOMB?
In order to blow off WTC in the manner as you actually did, you would need to control the effect, yield and spreading angle of explosion. How did you manage it? In October 2001, an earthquake of Magnitude 3 was registered in Western Pakistan (Near the battlefield of Afghanistan) and it was reported by several media as a possible explosion of tactical nuclear weapon in the form of Bunker Buster bomb. Apparently normal iron bomb cannot cause such earthquake. However,  there was no record of higher radiation level at neighboring area . Thus, it was attributed to the sympathetic detonation of the bombs under the ground. But, Dr. Lowenstein, I tend to think of Pure Hydrogen Bomb. It can cause Magnitude 3 earthquake and never cause the increasing level of radiation at neighboring area. Didn't you use it there? If you have already managed to load the Pure H. bomb inside Bunker Buster, you can use the same for WTC attack. You can detonate the bomb upward instead of downward. Conventional nuclear Bunker Buster is already developed and its effect and spreading yield can be well controlled. If only you can use Pure H. bomb instead of ordinary one, you can use H. bomb to demolish WTC in deep secrecy. No one know it while they suffer for radiation hazard without knowing the cause.
DR. LOWENSTEIN, DID YOU AND YOUR FELLOW JEWISH WARMONGERS USE PURE HYDROGEN BOMB TO KILL INNOCENT AMERICANS AT WTC? If so, please pack up your belongings and cue up for the cargo train directed to the concentration camp located in the HELL as your ancestors were forced to do in 1940's by your fellow stealth Jew, Barron Adolf Rothschild Hitler .
CONCLUSION
Pure Hydrogen bomb could be an essential mean for Jewish Mega Power to proceed their long-cherished plan of ONE WORLD (Otherwise, New World Order). It is understood Jewish Mega Power's eternal goal is to establish One World Government that shall rule the whole world and such government will be built after the final war. The final war would be in the form of nuclear war that will instantly reduce and adjust the human population of this planet. However, conventional nuclear weapons will no doubt contaminate the planet with radioactive, therefore, the survivors have to stay in the shelters for years until the radioactive get less harmful. And this fact had been the main obstacle for Jewish Mega Power to proceed their unpardonable plan.
With Pure Hydrogen bomb technology, they can erase the majority of human population on earth without contamination by radioactive. The bomb simply vaporizes the human and does not leave any Uranium or Plutonium. Survivors can return to the ground from the shelters 2-3 days after the attack when Neutron Ray emission is diminished. This allows them to really carry on their awful plan of WW3.
(FYI : WW1 and WW2 were both invented by the same Jewish Mega Power, too.) They need to experiment and evaluate this new weapon before they actually employ it in the final war. And it is very likely they have already tested this at WTC, Afghanistan, Iraq, Bali and Oklahoma. Dr. Lowenstein, we found the molten steel pools at WTC. We found 300 cancer patients. We found the seismic record at WTC that was typical for nuclear explosion. We found the electrical and electronic failure at Manhattan common for nuclear explosion. We found bodies of 1600 victims at WTC were vaporized. All these indicate the nuclear weapon has been used at WTC. But, there is no remarkable record of elevated level of radiation that should be detected whenever the nuclear bomb is detonated.
Thus, we believe your beloved Professor, Dr. Jones of BYU and other Jewish/stealth Jewish scientists had already managed to develop PURE HYDROGEN BOMB.
The best of your kind in the history, Dr. Albert Einstein has left an prophecy while he visited Japan in 1920's.
"Nothing else but development of Modern Japan has surprised the world. There must be something different from other nations that allowed such marvelous development. As expected, the history of three thousand years of this country enabled it. Having the Emperors of a single family line for thousands of years, Japan could accomplish the prosperity of today. I was thinking there must be at least one nation of such nobleness in the world.
The future of the world would advance up to the limit, war and conflict would be repeated several time during the period, then, the time will come to get exhausted at the final war. Therefore, humankind would have to seek for the true peace and accept the world leader with gratitude.
Such world leader should not be of military or monetary power. That should be of older and more noble stock than any other nation's history.
The world culture originates with Asia and returns to Asia. It should return to Asian high peak that is Japan.
We are thankful to God for creating and keeping this noble nation of Japan.
(From Kaizo magazine, December edition, 1922, Translated by Richard Koshimizu)
Your plan will be retarded by us, Japanese.  You will not be crowned as the dictator of ONE WORLD. So, stop it now. You will after all surrender your plan and ask to be forgiven. Renounce the world and live the rest of life quietly. Gods have already determined to give your kind of people the permanent, full vacation. You do not have to care about the future of the human species and the planet. These are no more your job. And we assure you will not be disturbed as far as you do not disturb us. Thank you for not bothering the future of our civilization any more because we will take care of it well with our conscience and goodwill. Thank you in advance.
When necessary to contact richardkoshimizu:-
RICHARD KOSHIMIZU'S ANALYSIS ON 9-11
<noscript>
</noscript>
uneki2012
