Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland
On Monday, February 5th, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland announced that the 14 countries of the Lima Group have now been joined (though she didn’t say to what extent) by the EU, and by 8 other individual countries. The Lima Group had actually formed themselves under her direction into this new group on 8 August 2017 in order to overthrow and replace Venezuela’s current President Nicolás Maduro. She stated in her February 5th announcement :
Today, we have been joined by our Lima Group partners, from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Saint Lucia. We have also been joined in our conversations with our partners from other countries, for this Lima Group ministerial meeting. These include Ecuador, the European Union, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States.”
She, along with U.S. President Donald Trump, had, all along, been the actual leaders of this international diplomatic effort, to violate the Venezuelan Constitution blatantly , so as to perpetrate the coup in Venezuela.
Her active effort to replace Venezuela’s Government began with her formation of the Lima Group, nearly two years ago.
Canada’s Ottawa Citizen headlined on 19 August 2017, “Choosing Danger” , and their reporter Peter Hum interviewed Canada’s Ambassador to Venezuela, Ben Rowswell, who was then retiring from the post. Rowswell said that Venezuelans who wanted an overthrow of their Government would continue to have the full support of Canada’s Government: “‘I think that some of them were sort of anx­ious that it (the em­bassy’s support for hu­man rights and democ­racy in Venezuela) might not con­tinue after I left,’ Rowswell said. ‘I don’t think they have any­thing to worry about be­cause Minister (of For­eign Af­fairs Chrys­tia) Free­land has Venezuela way at the top of her pri­or­ity list.’”
Maybe it wasn’t yet at the top of Trump’s list, but it was at the top of hers. And she and Trump together chose whom to replace Venezuela’s President, Nicholas Maduro, by: Juan Guaido . Guaido had secretly courted other Latin American leaders for this, just as Freeland had already done, by means of her secretly forming the Lima Group.
On 25 January 2019, the AP bannered “AP Exclusive: Anti-Maduro coalition grew from secret talks” and reported that the man who now claims to be Venezuela’s legitimate President (though he had never even run for that post), Juan Guaido, had secretly visited foreign countries in order to win their blessings for what he was planning:
In mid-December, Guaido quietly traveled to Washington, Colombia and Brazil to brief officials on the opposition’s strategy of mass demonstrations to coincide with Maduro’s expected swearing-in for a second term on Jan. 10 in the face of widespread international condemnation, according to exiled former Caracas Mayor Antonio Ledezma, an ally.
Playing a key role behind the scenes was Lima Group member Canada, whose Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland spoke to Guaido [9 January 2019] the night before Maduro’s swearing-in ceremony [on 10 January 2019] to offer her government’s support should he confront the socialist leader [Maduro], the Canadian official said. Also active was Colombia, which shares a border with Venezuela and has received more than two million migrants fleeing economic chaos, along with Peru and Brazil’s new far-right President Jair Bolsonaro.
To leave Venezuela, he sneaked across the lawless border with Colombia, so as not to raise suspicions among immigration officials who sometimes harass opposition figures at the airport and bar them from traveling abroad, said a different anti-government leader, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss security arrangements.
During the last days in office of Canada’s Ambassador to Venezuela Rowswell, U.S. President Donald Trump went public with his overt threat to invade Venezuela. On 11 August 2017, McClatchy’s Miami Herald bannered “Trump was making friends in Latin America — before he raised Venezuela ‘military option’” , and Patricia Mazzei reported that “President Donald Trump’s unexpected suggestion Friday that he might rely on military force to deal with Venezuela’s pressing political crisis was an astonishing statement that strained not only credulity but also the White House’s hard-won new friendships in Latin America.”
Even a spokesperson from the Atlantic Council (which is the main PR agency for NATO) was quoted as saying that “U.S. diplomats, after weeks of carefully building the groundwork for a collective international response, suddenly find their efforts completely undercut by a ridiculously over the top and anachronistic assertion. It makes us look imperialistic and old-time. This is not how the U.S. has behaved in decades!” However, Peru’s Foreign Minister, Ricardo Luna, was just as eager for a coup in Venezuela as were Trump and Freeland.
On 26 October 2017, Peru’s Gestion TV reported that Luna was the co-chair of the meeting of the Lima Group in Toronto, which Freeland chaired, and that (as translated into English here) “Luna added that the objective of the meeting of the Group of Lima ‘is to create a propitious situation’ so that the regime of Nicolás Maduro ‘feels obligated to negotiate’ not only an exit to the crisis, ‘but also an exit to his own regime’.”
This gang was going to make Maduro an offer that he couldn’t refuse. So, the Lima Group, which was founded by Luna and by Freeland, was taking the initiative as much and as boldly as Trump was, regardless of what NATO might think about it. The topic of that news-report, and its headline, was “Peru proposes Grupo de Lima to involve the UN to face the Venezuelan crisis.” Four days later, Freeland and Luna met privately at the U.N., in New York, with the Secretary General, Antonio Guterres.
Inner City Press reported that “The title of the meeting is ‘the situation in Venezuela and efforts by regional organizations to resolve the crisis per Chapter VIII of the UN Charter’ [see it here ] and the briefer will be not USG [Under Secretary General] Jeffrey Feltman but his Assistant, ASG [Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs] Miroslav Jenca.”
Jeffrey Feltman was the person who, in the secretly recorded 27 January 2014 phone-conversation in which U.S. President Barack Obama’s agent, Victoria Nuland — planning and overseeing the February 2014 coup that overthrew Ukraine’s democratically elected President — instructed the U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, that, after Ukraine’s President is ousted, Arseniy “Yats” Yatsenyuk was to be appointed as Ukraine’s ‘interim’ leader as the new Prime Minister, to replace the President. She also said :
“I talked to Jeff Feltman this morning; he had a new name for the UN guy Robert Serry. … He’s now gotten both Serry and Ban ki-Moon to agree that Serry could come in Monday or Tuesday. That would be great, I think, to help glue this thing, and to have the UN help glue it, and, you know, fuck the EU.”
So, the still Under Secretary General of the U.N, Mr. Feltman, is still America’s fixer there, who “glues” whatever the U.S. President orders the U.N. to do, and his Assistant was filling in for him that day. Therefore, if Trump and Freeland turn out to be as successful as Obama was, then the U.N. will “glue” the outcome. Chrystia Freeland happens also to be a friend of Victoria Nuland, and a passionate supporter of her coup in Ukraine.
Freeland’s parents were Ukrainian and supported the Nazis during World War II. Cameron Pike headlined about Freeland at The Saker, on 2 February 2019, “Canada’s Nazi Problem” and opened:
In the 1960’s the Polish government, still reeling from their role as the main course of the European ‘meat-sandwich’ that was the second world war, went on the hunt for Nazi aiders and abettors who destroyed their people. Contrary to what mainstream readers are allowed to know, WWII Nazi and Waffen SS leaders, Goebbels’s publishers and editors (otherwise known as propagandists), willing and outright Nazi collaborators and vicious killers, made their way out of conquered Germany to the United States [under CIA direction] and to Canada, under MI-6 direction, [and Canada] took in 2000 of them. Most of them ‘made their way’ to Ontario and Alberta. One of them even became the President of the University of Alberta.
I repeat, one of them EVEN BECAME THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA. … It was this former Waffen SS soldier-turned University President who created the Ukrainian Studies department at the U of A. … Michael Chomiak, another of these significant Nazis who were never caught, lived out his days after the war as a farmer in Alberta. His Nazi identification documents were uncovered by the Polish Government in the 1960’s.
“Chomiak’s records show he was trained in Vienna for German espionage and propaganda operations, then promoted to run the German press machine for the Galician region of Ukraine and Poland during the 4-year occupation. So high-ranking and active in the Nazi cause was Chomiak that the Polish intelligence services were actively hunting for Chomiak until the 1980s – without knowing he had fled for safety to an Alberta farm in Canada.”
[Editing note: Please see link for John Helmer’s extensive work on uncovering Freeland’s Nazi family history.] Poland was on the hunt but lost the trail because he was well hidden by their WWII ‘ally’, the British, unbeknownst to my fellow peaceful Canadians.
Chomiac was Chrystia Freeland’s father. Chrystia Freeland loves him very much and is unshakably loyal to his memory and to his far-right beliefs, which she proudly supports. She also is a close friend of George Soros, who likewise is entirely unembarrassed at, and unapologetic about, his having, as a supposed Christian child in Hungary, helped the Nazis take the property of other Jews, before they were sent off to the concentration camps. He chose to do that — help the Nazi regime — rather than die as a Jew himself. Of course, subsequently, he founded the rabidly anti-Russian Open Society Foundation and other political ‘charities’ to tax-exempt his global political donations.
Soros, too, is a passionate supporter of the U.S. coup in Ukraine and of Ukraine’s far-right, and helped to finance (tax-exempt via his International Renaissance Fund) Obama’s Ukrainian coup by being one of the three top donors to Hromadske TV, which propagandized for slaughtering at least one and a half million of the people in the far eastern region of Ukraine, where Obama’s imposed far-right Ukrainian government was totally rejected. It’s the region that had voted over 90% for the Ukrainian President whom Obama-Nuland overthrew, and George Soros was a top funder of such exterminationist propaganda. So, it’s reasonable that his fellow anti-Russian fanatic, Freeland, is a friend of his.
That’s the “liberal” side of fascism. The “conservative” side of it is represented by such people as John Bolton and the Koch brothers .
Of course, the man whom the U.S. and Canadian regimes and the Lima Group are trying to install as Venezuela’s President, Juan Guaido, had been well-groomed for that job, but not by political and electoral experience, of which he has almost none, but by his foreign sponsors. On 29 January 2019 the Gray Zone Project bannered “The Making of Juan Guaidó: How the US Regime Change Laboratory Created Venezuela’s Coup Leader” , and their two star investigative journalists, Dan Cohen and Max Blumenthal, opened: “Juan Guaidó is the product of a decade-long project overseen by Washington’s elite regime change trainers. While posing as a champion of democracy, he has spent years at the forefront of a violent campaign of destabilization.”
This report also noted that “The ‘real work’ began two years later, in 2007, when Guaidó graduated from Andrés Bello Catholic University of Caracas. He moved to Washington, DC to enroll in the Governance and Political Management Program at George Washington University, under the tutelage of Venezuelan economist Luis Enrique Berrizbeitia, one of the top Latin American neoliberal economists. Berrizbeitia is a former executive director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) [and the IMF is a central part the operation that’s described in John Perkins’s now-classic Confessions of an Economic Hit Man] who spent more than a decade working in the Venezuelan energy sector, under the old oligarchic regime that was ousted by Chávez.”
Moreover, ”Stratfor and CANVAS – key advisors of Guaidó and his anti-government cadre – devised a shockingly cynical plan to drive a dagger through the heart of the Bolivarian revolution. The scheme hinged on a 70% collapse of the country’s electrical system by as early as April 2010.” Etc. This is how ‘democracy’ now functions. It’s not democracy — it is fascism. The euphemisms for it are “neoliberalism” and “neoconservatism.”
Regardless of whether or not the Trump-Freeland-Luna program for Venezuela succeeds, democracy and human rights won’t be advanced by it; but, if it succeeds, the fortunes of US-and-allied billionaires will be . It’s part of their global privatization program .
Sidebar: If you want to understand what was the historical context where Inner City Press reported that “The title of the meeting is ‘the situation in Venezuela and efforts by regional organizations to resolve the crisis per Chapter VIII of the UN Charter’”; then Luk Van Langenhove has summarized that context , by saying:
Few invocations of Chapter VIII’s provisions were made during the cold war period. But when the bipolar world system collapsed and spawned new global security threats, the explosion of local and regional armed conflicts provoked a renewed interest in regional organizations and their role in the maintenance of regional peace and security. The United Nations was forced to acknowledge its inability to solely bear the responsibility for providing peace and security worldwide.”
So, “during the cold war period,” this provision of the UN Charter remained virtually inactive. Then, suddenly, after 1991, when the Soviet Union and its communism and its Warsaw Pact military alliance to counter America’s NATO military alliance, all ended (with no concessions being made on the American side ), America could no longer use ‘communism’ as a ‘justification’ to invade or perpetrate coups against foreign governments that were friendly toward or else allied with Russia.
So, now, this provision of the U.N.’s Charter became activated by the U.S. and its allies, in order to be able to say that The West’s coups and invasions aren’t actually to build-out the U.S. empire, but are instead for (in the terms of this part of the U.N.’s Charter) “the maintenance of international peace and security” — so as to ‘authorize’ coups and international invasions by the U.S. and its vassal nations, such as are the members of NATO.
This is what U.S. President G.H.W. Bush had in mind to rely upon, when he told the leaders of the U.S. regime’s vassal states, secretly at Camp David, on the night of 24 February 1990, that the ‘Cold War’ would now continue secretly on the U.S.-allied side, against Russia and against any nation’s leaders (such as Saddam Hussein, Muammar Qaddafi, Bashar al-Assad, and Viktor Yanukovych) that aren’t hostile toward Russia, by Bush’s saying then to them, that no compromise must ever be allowed “with Moscow,” because “To hell with that! We prevailed, they didn’t.”
In other words, whereas the U.N. had been set up by FDR to evolve ultimately into the global democratic federation of nation-states — a democratic world-government — so as to become the sole possessor of control over all strategic weaponry, and thus to become the democratic republic of the entire world authorized to settle international disputes peacefully, the subterranean Nazis and other fascists whom U.S. President Truman and the Bilderberg group represented, were determined that the U.S. and its vassal nations would ultimately become the dictatorship over all nations, the entire world. That’s what Ukraine, and now Venezuela, and many other U.S. coups and invasions, are — and have been — really about. It’s about the ‘peace’ of the graveyard, NOT any democracy, anywhere at all.
That’s their dream. They want to monopolize the corruption everywhere, not to end it, anywhere. And that’s why they distort and blatantly lie about Venezuela’s democratic constitution now , just as they did about Ukraine’s democratic constitution in February 2014. It’s, essentially, a lawless international gang of billionaire thugs. It is the international Deep State . It consists of the under 2,000 people who are international billionaires in the U.S. and secondarily in the U.S.-allied countries, and of those billionaires’ millions of hirees. 585 of those under-2,000 are Americans .
But the wealthiest person on the planet isn’t even listed on any of the standard lists of billionaires, and he is the King of Saudi Arabia . That person is the U.S. aristocracy’s #1 international ally, because ever since the 1970s when gold no longer backed the U.S. dollar but instead oil did, that person’s decisions have enabled the U.S. dollar to continue as being the world’s reserve currency, no matter how big the U.S. economy’s trade deficits are, and no matter how high the U.S. Government’s fiscal deficits are.
Below those billionaires (and trillionaire), and below their millions of hirees, are the billions of serfs; and, below those, at the very bottom, are the approximately 40 million slaves , and the many millions imprisoned — virtually all of whom have extremely low (if any) net worth at all, since slavery and imprisonment are, in the real world, only for the very poor, not at all for the international gangsters, except for a very few exceptions (such as, perhaps, “El Chapo”).
The billionaires command, and the governments obey; that’s ‘democracy’, and it’s ‘the rule of law’, today. Everything to the contrary is propaganda, such as that what Trump-Freeland-Luna want for Venezuela is to decrease corruption and to increase democracy and human rights.
At least the more blatant fascist John Bolton was honest when he said on January 28th : “It will make a big difference to the United States economically if we could have American oil companies invest in and produce the oil capabilities in Venezuela.” But he would have been lots more honest if he had acknowledged, instead, that “It will make a big difference to the United States billionaires economically if we could have American oil companies invest in and produce the oil capabilities in Venezuela.”
This is all that the fascists ever really cared about. Mussolini called it “corporationism.” Now, decades in the wake of the Allies’ supposed ‘victory against fascism’ — against the Axis powers — in WW II, we all (at least the realists) are acknowledging that we clearly are staring in the face the raw fact that fascism has finally won, or at least very nearly totally won, in the world.
Hitler, Mussolini, and Hirohito, died; but their ideological followers today rule the world, and FDR would be turning in his grave.
Originally posted at strategic-culture.org
41 Comments
What evidence do you present that something I stated about him is false?
Venezuelan Jews ‘accept’ Israel’s recognition of opposition leader, Chief Rabbi says …
Loading...
1
1
Reply
Thanks for this excellent piece. “Chomiak was Chrystia Freeland’s father.” Should be ‘grand-father’. Please correct.
Thank you, John. It is corrected by you, here. You are absolutely correct, and I got that wrong. Although I work intensively to root out anything false, I slipped up there. If the detail changed the article in any significant way, I would point out the error to each of the sites that publish the article. But it doesn’t; so, I won’t. Incidentally, one reason why Off-Guardian is perhaps my favorite site is that the reader-comments here seem to me to be better, more knowledgeable and also more relevant, than anywhere else. And yours is a good example of this.
Loading...
5
1
Reply
John was, I think, the fourth person to suggest the correction, which, as you say, is of little moment. Once established that it is a mere slip it loses its importance. It is an indication of how thin the ice under Freeland is that such a tiny point is the only inaccuracy to be found in the piece.
Another indication of the weakness  of Canada’s position is indicated by two news stories this morning. The first in MintPress regarding the appalling situation in Colombia, which has got much worse in the past few months and the second, at OpenDemocracy, on the Guatemalan regime’s efforts to restore impunity to those responsible for decades of genocidal wars against the poor and the indigenous.
The Lima Group is a collection of the most egregious offenders against civil and democratic rights that could be assembled.
Or are we saying that facts between ‘friends’ are not important?
Or does the ‘bad cop, good cop’ manipulative stance of the author intimidate the more polite amongst us?
In the year 2025:
Wasn’t Chrystia Freeland’s grandfather a nazi collaborator?
Don’t think so.  I’ve read that he was a Canadian hero.
Could have been her father, I suppose?
No, the timing is wrong.  He would be too young.
Right.  Canadian hero, wow.  She get’s my vote.
Oh, if only someone had reported the facts accurately.
So goes Orwell’s ‘memory hole’.
Please google just the following two words: Helmer Freeland
Then click on the first page of results, and get back to me here reporting what you find.
Thanks Eric. It’s an important piece and I thank you for it!
POTUS’s come and go but the Neo Con caravan rolls on. A timely distraction for the up and coming Ukrainian election is something that went through my mind. Of course the US is always mindful of low hanging loot wherever it might present itself what self respecting band of brigands and pirates would not?
Unfortunately the Orange one is being wagged again by those who are most seriously plotting his demise and over reach in Venezuela may be just as much part of the plan as it was in pushing him into launching an attack on Syria. It is true that the global elites are at a loss what to do, as the fracturing of the global oligarchies is proving Marx right . capitalist are just a band of warring brothers [brigands, robbers, pirates – all!]. As there is no serious ideological threat to their hegemony at the moment they fight amongst themselves with imperial designs.
The threat to the imperium is the chaos which ensues when the elite power struggles fracture their hegemony and an uncontrollable uprising ensues. Who shapes that revolution will be central to this. Where it will come from is not evident yet but let’s hope it’s a grass roots one!
Chomiac was not Chrystia Freeland’s father. But her grandfather.
Not that it makes any difference: he was a high ranking Nazi one of 2000 high ranking Nazis and collaborators that MI 6 extracted from Europe to Canada. The total number of Waffen SS and their followers who came to Canada was much greater Zuesse’s figure is for the leaders.
And there is no doubt that Freeland is pursuing policies which are in the same tradition as those promoted by Chomiac as a Nazi newspaper editor.
I mention him by name because- and it had to be heard to be believed- last week Freeland was claiming on radio that she was inspired by the principles which moved her grandfather to volunteer to fight tyranny. She was referring to her paternal grandfather, a Canadian of Scots origin, who joined the all volunteer Canadian army in 1940.
In effect she was showing her contempt-the contempt of a right wing career journalist- for her readers. And her constituents,. And the people of Canada. As to the people of Venezuela they are untermenschen in the eyes of the racists who have declared war on them.
Loading...
26
1
Reply
Fascism never wrnt away.. it emigrated.. Nuland to Freeland.. oxy-morons if ever I saw.. c*#+s by any other name..
that sounds entirely reasonable to me.
(as a general rule, alleged legal principles quoted in Latin, are usually a cover for police-state fascism. actually, Latin in any context is usually a cover for fascism, being, as it is, the long-dead language of long-dead slaveowners.)
Yes, they will never stop. Just think of this brand-new propaganda lie of Maduro allegedly preventing aid shipment to come into Venezuela. See BBC: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-latin-america-47143492 : “Venezuelan soldiers have blocked the crossing ahead of a delivery arranged by opposition leader Juan Guaidó, who has declared himself interim president“.
Notice the word “ahead” in this sentence. This word appears because there was never a “delivery” (truck) with aid shipment at the bridge!
The Venezuelan government (“Maduro”) blocked the bridge only because of war-threatening Columbia and USA.
If you want to send aid shipment to Venezuela you can send as much as you want anytime. Of course you have to respect the regulations of the custom (like in every other country!). But that’s all!
Whets foul with this story?
Well, this aid “delivery” cannot have been collected in Colombia – and thus being taken away from the people of Colombia, who are much poorer than the people of Venezuela. So it would have to come from other country (USA, Europe, China, Japan). And then you would not land this aid shipment in Columbia (a harbour, an airport), drive it, in hot-humid air, through half of Colombia to the border crossing bridge of Cúcuta. Then cross the bridge and then drive it through half of Venezuela!
Instead aid shipments for Venezuela would be landed directly in Venezuela – in an Venezuelan harbour or airport.
“Everything (to the contrary) is propaganda”.
Or “Fake News”! So don’t miss James Corbett’s “FAKE NEWS AWARD” – https://www.corbettreport.com/episode-351-the-2nd-annual-real-fake-news-awards/
A Brief History of U.S. Dirty Wars in Central America – That Set the Stage for the Refugee Crisis (video only 9 min.)
Evil. These creatures all swim in the same pond of sewerage. All for power, control, and pathological greed. How apt that Freeland is a personal friend of Victoria Nuland. And while all this bloody imperialism continues, much of Australia dreams of their next shopping binge or avidly waiting for the next episode of My Kitchen Rules or Married At First Sight. How truly sad.
The pathetic death throes of the One Per Cent as the Earth purges those perverse psychopaths through climate cataclysm.
What does Chrystia Freeland’s action in secretly forming the Lima Group to overthrow the legitimately elected government of Nicolas Maduro and install in his place a puppet currently cowering in a hiding place (perhaps somewhere in the US embassy in Caracas for all I know) say about the leadership of Guaido lookalike Justin Bieber Trudeau as Canada’s Prime Minister?
Of course I’m speaking rhetorically: we all know what the answer is and it ain’t looking very pretty.
What we are experiencing today is the worst and most extreme form of predatory and parasitic financialised monopoly crony capitalism (crapitalism), allied with blatant aggressive jingoistic militarism and the crudest form of imperialist exploitation.
I’m not sure even Marx envisaged anything this corrupt and degraded. This must be the terminal stage of crapitalism’s death throes. It can only end in war and complete collapse.
It comes as no surprise to see the Faux Left Blairite Backstabbers and the Oh-So-Right-On-Politically-Correct Trudeau Regime leading the charge for a bog standard Pinochet style US coup behind the likes of Trump, Bolton, Pompeo and recycled neocon war criminal and death squad queen Abrams.
They have taken off the mask and showed their true colours. The final outcome is uncertain but the fall out will extend way beyond Venezuela. It may well sound the death knell of our current system.
The author needs to correct one thing: Michael Chomiak was Chrystia Freeland’s maternal grandfather, not father.
Utterly shocking and degrading for Canada. When can we send Chrystia Freeland back to Ukraine, where she fully endorsed its coup d’etat in 2014? And Justin Trudeau — what can we do with an individual who is both incompetent and dangerous?
The problem with your suggestion is that in Africa or Mexico Justin Bieber Trudeau will be mistaken for Juan Guaido (because as you presumably already know they both came off the same assembly line in the same batch in a factory located in one of the poorer low-wage provinces in rural China) and will be extradited to Venezuela. The Maduro government will discover JBT’s true identity and offer to send him back to Canada only on the condition that the Bank of England ends its freeze on returning Venezuela’s gold.
Well it’s not like Canada is a sovereign country anymore, is it?
Please note the opinions expressed in the comments do not necessarily reflect those of the editors or of OffG as a whole
Follow OffGuardian via Email
Enter your email address to follow OffG and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 40,454 other subscribers
About
OffGuardian is the creation of people from different parts of the world committed to the original vision which drew us together on The Guardian‘s CiF pages...Tired of being censored by our beloved, once-upon-a-time left-of-centre newspaper, in February 2015 we decided to create our own platform for airing our unacceptable opinions.
If you’re also sick of being stifled, moderated,  slandered as 'Putinbots' or worse, and censored to oblivion on any of the Readers’ Comments sections of our mainstream press, come and tell us about it.
Join 40,454 other subscribers
Follow Us
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
