Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Iconic American filmmaker praises President for Deep State take down
© press
Iconic American filmmaker praises President for Deep State take down
Iconic American filmmaker David Lynch has said that President Donald Trump could go as one of the 'greatest presidents in history' for destroying the deep state and the  New World Order .
According to the “Twin Peaks” creator, the New World Order cabal are no longer able to Trump’s superior intellect and are now cornered like “frightened children.”
“He could go down as one of the greatest presidents in history because he has disrupted the thing so much,” Lynch said referring to the New World in an exclusive interview with the guardian.
“No one is able to counter this guy in an intelligent way.”
According to The Guardian Interview: Politically, meanwhile, Lynch is all over the map.
He voted for Bernie Sanders in the 2016 Democratic primary and thinks — he’s not sure — he voted Libertarian in the presidential election.
“I am not really a political person, but I really like the freedom to do what you want to do,” says the persecuted Californian smoker.
He is undecided about Donald Trump.
“He could go down as one of the greatest presidents in history because he has disrupted the thing so much. No one is able to counter this guy in an intelligent way.”
While Trump may not be doing a good job himself, Lynch thinks, he is opening up space where other outsiders might.
© press
George Soros
Geroge Soros recently expressed his frustration that “everything that could go wrong has gone wrong"  referring to the rapid dismantling of the New World Order spearheaded by President Donald Trump.
The billionaire globalist who financed of countless Color Revolutions all across the world told the Washington Post that he was “living in [his] own bubble” due to failing to forsee Trump’s meteoric rise.
Soros expressed fears that Trump “is willing to destroy the world" and vowed to “redouble [his] efforts” by pouring millions of dollars into o opposing everything that the President stands for all across the world.
Share this post:
Facebook is heavily censoring information from independent sources.
To bypass internet censorship, connect with us directly by enabling our notifications (using the red subscription bell in the bottom right corner) or by subscribing to our free daily newsletter.
Get the latest news delivered straight to your inbox for free every day by signing up below.
›
›
Email Address:
First Name:
Last Name:
Latest News
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
More Stuff
