Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Grimes: 'Not enough bourbon' in Kentucky to make commission's voter data request seem sensible
Kentucky's secretary of state says Trump is wrong in alleging voter fraud was widespread last year; will not give Kentucky voter data to Trump panel.
Post to Facebook
Grimes: 'Not enough bourbon' in Kentucky to make commission's voter data request seem sensible Kentucky's secretary of state says Trump is wrong in alleging voter fraud was widespread last year; will not give Kentucky voter data to Trump panel. Check out this story on courier-journal.com: http://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/politics/2017/06/30/grimes-says-she-wont-send-kentucky-voter-data-trump-commission/442751001/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Grimes: 'Not enough bourbon' in Kentucky to make commission's voter data request seem sensible
Tom Loftus , @TomLoftus_CJ Published 12:49 p.m. ET June 30, 2017 | Updated 12:45 p.m. ET July 1, 2017
CLOSE
President Trump is taking the next step in his effort to crack down on possible voter fraud in the 2016 election. Veuer's Nick Cardona (@nickcardona93) has that story. Buzz60
Buy Photo
Ky Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes speaks as members of the Ky Electoral College prepare to place their votes for the presidency inside the Supreme Court Chambers at the Capitol Building in Frankfort on Monday. Dec. 19, 2016
(Photo11: Alton Strupp/The CJ)Buy Photo
This story is developing, check back for updates. 
FRANKFORT, Ky. — Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes says she will not send "sensitive personal data" of Kentucky voters to a commission created by President Donald Trump to investigate voter fraud.
Grimes, a Democrat, said in a statement late Thursday that her office had received a request from the commission for Kentucky records that includes names, personal information and voting history of 3.2 million Kentucky voters.
"As the commonwealth's secretary of state and chief election official, I do not intend to release Kentuckians' sensitive personal data to the federal government," Grimes said in a statement. "The president created his election commission based on the false notion that 'voter fraud' is a widespread issue. It is not."
In an interview with MSNBC on Friday, Grimes said there is "not enough bourbon here in Kentucky to make this request seem sensible. ... Not on my watch are we going to be releasing sensitive information that relate to the privacy of individuals."
Trump, a Republican, established the Advisory Commission on Election Integrity in May to investigate his claims that millions of illegal voters participated in last November's elections. The commission is chaired by Vice President Mike Pence.
Grimes also said in her statement, "The president has repeatedly spread the lie that three to five million illegal votes were cast in the last election. Kentucky will not aid a commission that is at best a waste of taxpayer money and at worst an attempt to legitimize voter suppression efforts across the country."
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Breaking news alerts
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-866-2211.
Delivery: Varies
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Breaking News
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
The letter also asked Grimes seven questions seeking her suggestions on how the integrity of federal elections might be enhanced.
Multiple news reports said that officials from a number of states also said they would not provide voter data to the commission for similar reasons given by Grimes.
Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide?
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Breaking news alerts
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-866-2211.
Delivery: Varies
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Breaking News
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Feb. 21, 2019, 11:31 a.m.
Feb. 21, 2019, 9:06 a.m.
Feb. 21, 2019, 8:26 a.m.
Feb. 20, 2019, 6:24 p.m.
Subscribe Now
