Enter the username or registered email address for your account.
Password
Email Address
Please specify the email address to receive the password reset instructions.
Submit
Cancel
An error has occurred whilst processing your request!
If the issue persists, then please contact us at [email protected] .
Close
Object being modified by the action
Do you want to proceed?
Action
Cancel
Appeal details
Please provide the details of your appeal, including why you believe this target has been incorrectly moderated.
Note: For copyright infringement counter claims see the Terms and Conditions .
Thank you for submitting your appeal.
We will investigate and inform you of the outcome.
Submit
Cancel
Please select the most appropriate reason from the list provided.
Note: For copyright infringement claims see the Terms and Conditions .
Time Offset
Please specify the time offset in the video where the issue occurs.
Additional comments
Please add any additonal comments that will help with the assessment of your report here.
Thank you for submitting your report.
We will investigate and inform you of the outcome.
Submit
Cancel
<iframe width="640" height="360" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="border: none;" src="https://www.bitchute.com/embed/jcRCLdlXgCI/"></iframe>
Copy to clipboard
Add to Playlist
CONGRESSMAN ADAM SCHIFF MEETS WITH STEELE DOSSIER FUSION GPS GLENN SIMPSON WITHOUT TELLING TRUMP
Adam Schiff, Glenn Simpson and their Forrest Gump-like encounter in Aspen https://thehill.com/hilltv/rising/429041-adam-schiff-glenn-simpson-and-their-forrest-gump-like-encounter-in-aspen
MORE
Adam Schiff, Glenn Simpson and their Forrest Gump-like encounter in Aspen https://thehill.com/hilltv/rising/429041-adam-schiff-glenn-simpson-and-their-forrest-gump-like-encounter-in-aspen
LESS
Category
Warning - This video exceeds your sensitivity preference!
To dismiss this warning and continue to watch the video please click on the button below.
Note - Autoplay has been disabled for this video.
Watch this video
hagoodman has enabled advertising for this video.
Advertising is one of many monetization approaches we are using to help reward creators for their content and to support this platform. If you would like to read more about our monetization options, please see our Monetization Policy page.
Registered users can opt-out of receiving advertising via the Interface tab on their Settings page.
Close
BitChute is a peer-to-peer content sharing platform. Creators are free to post content they produce to the platform, so long as they comply with our policies . The content posted to the platform is not reflective or representative of the views of Bit Chute Limited, its staff or owners. © 2019 Bit Chute Limited, 31 St. Georges Square, St. Georges Centre, Gravesend, DA11 0TB. United Kingdom. Company number 10637289.
jcRCLdlXgCI
