Caravan migrants take a stunning action against Trump - and immediately inspire outrage
Elements of the migrant caravan expected to reach the physical border on Sunday in California.   (PEDRO PARDO/AFP/Getty Images)
'Shockingly unconstitutional'
Shannon Bream posted the filing from her social media account.
"Group of migrants travelling on foot from Honduras file federal lawsuit against Pres Trump and others," she tweeted, with an explanatory excerpt from the filing.
"Trump’s professed and enacted policy towards thousands of caravanners seeking asylum in the United States is shockingly unconstitutional," it read, "to deter Central Americans from exercising their lawful right to seek asylum in the United States, and the fact that innocent children are involved matters none to President Trump."
The complaint alleges that President Donald Trump is violating the Flores Agreement by detaining children in tents without the proper facilities as required by the law.
The complaint also claims that because of his actions, the president is violating the due process rights of migrants who should be allowed to legally challenge their designations as illegal aliens apart from asylum-seekers.
"The legal problem with Trump’s plan to stop caravan persons from entering this country is that Plaintiffs are seeking asylum, and Trump simply cannot stop them from legally doing so by using military, or anyone," the filing read.
'How is this real?'
Many on social media could not believe that migrants were already taking legal action against the government of a country they had not even entered into yet.
"A group of people in the migrant caravan is suing the U.S. government in federal court," said David Martosko, Daily Mail editor.
"None of them is a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident," he added, "and none of them is physically in the U.S. or has ever been physically in the U.S. I give up. How is this real?"
"This is fully ridiculous," responded California GOP committeewoman Harmeet K. Dhillon.
The lawsuit names President Trump, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security, and DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, among others, as the defendants.
Earlier Thursday, Trump made a very strong statement against illegal immigration generally and the caravan migrants specifically, and said that he would change the immigration policy to prevent their entry into the United States.
One last thing…
Watch TheBlaze live and on demand on any device, anywhere, anytime.
Sponsored content
Get the news that matters most delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Get the news that matters most delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Press enter to search
