Trump’s approval rating remains unchanged after Stormy Daniels’ interview
Editor: Johnathan Meyers | Tactical Investor
Trump’s approval rating remains unchanged
A Politico/Morning Consult  poll  out Wednesday shows little change in President  Trump ’s approval rating after the “60 Minutes” interview with porn star actress Stormy Daniels.
The poll shows  Mr. Trump  currently has a 42 percent approval rating a 2-point drop from last week’s poll, but within the margin of error. A majority believes  Mr. Trump  did have an affair with Ms. Daniels — whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford — but 46 percent say the affair didn’t make a difference in how they viewed the president. The poll also asked if voters believed Ms. Clifford’s allegation of an affair — differing slightly from asking whether the affair actually happened — and 51 percent said yes.
Voters are more skeptical of Ms. Clifford’s claim that she was threatened in a Las Vegas parking lot after trying to sell her story. Only 35 percent say that allegation is credible, while 30 percent do not believe in its credibility, and 35 percent remain undecided.  Full Story
Daniels  spoke out  about the alleged relationship during the interview on Sunday. She said she was threatened to keep quiet about the affair after she agreed to discuss the relationship with a publication in 2011.
“I was in a parking lot, going to a fitness class with my infant daughter. Taking, you know, the seats facing backwards in the backseat, diaper bag, you know, gettin’ all the stuff out. And a guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story,’ ” Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, said.
“And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone,” she continued.
The White House hit back at Daniels’s claims on Monday.
“The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims,” deputy press secretary Raj Shah said. “The only person who has been inconsistent is the one making the claims.”  Full Story
Trump’s Ratings not taking a hit
The former porn star, whose given name is Stephanie Clifford, also said that she accepted a $130,000 payment from Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen — despite knowing she could sell her story for a considerably larger sum — because she was threatened and told not to disclose the affair by an anonymous man while standing in a parking lot with her infant daughter.
While respondents appeared unmoved by the interview, they did believe Daniels’s account of the incident despite the White House’s denials. Only a third of those interviewed believe Trump is honest and a majority believe he has low moral character.
 
2018
