It’s bad enough that he couldn’t just keep his mouth shut, but President Trump stuck his own foot squarely down his racist throat with a despicable attack on Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) today after she held a rally to launch her campaign for the Democratic nomination for president in 2020.
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Thousands of Native Americans died on the ‘Trail of Tears’ — https://t.co/ji25xvAUzC
This is an extremely racist “joke” — the punchline is a riff on genocide — and would probably get him kicked off Twitter if he weren’t the President https://t.co/F4gt8DO8nf
Pro tip: You don't need all caps, let your genocide pun sell itself. https://t.co/aalAgEYs0F
If the average American gave a shit about Native Americans and the apocalyptic genocide committed against them, we’d have to completely rethink literally everything about the United States of America lol
Because genocide is hilarious (if you’re a bad person) https://t.co/ALvOps9Z4U
Applauding the genocide of indigenous people to own the libs.
The same week in which the political world has united around the notion that posting a black face pic on your yearbook is a cause for resignation, the president makes a joke about Native American genocide, his son cheers it, and it will likely be viewed as par for the course.
I try to never dignify this man’s tweets, but there is little doubt here that he uses “TRAIL” to evoke the genocidal Trail of Tears, and does so to land a political jab. Warren has taken justifiable heat on this issue—but he used the murders of Indigenous people as a punchline. https://t.co/LiyK2iruDF
There is no way that Donald Trump, who talks about how much he loves Andrew Jackson all the time, does not know about the Trail of Tears. There is no other interpretation of this tweet that I understand. He is making a joke about genocide against Native Americans. https://t.co/71DuX0mhy0
Joking about genocide is a new low for the Trump family https://t.co/0qFEQ25lcR
I said from day one that Trump should have been banned from twitter.
Twitter responses aside, Trump will hopefully face his own trail of tears when his karma catches up with him, preferably through the revelations contained in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report when it’s finally finished. His belief that he will still be in a position to run against a Democratic candidate in 2020 rather than rotting in prison will be proven to be the biggest of his many delusions if justice is ever truly served.
Follow Vinnie Longobardo on  Twitter .
Politics
The rising Democratic star responded to the chilling story by pointing out a major problem that everyone is ignoring.
FOLLOW US ON
Washington Press is a political news website dedicated to providing our readers the most accurate, concise, and breaking political news of the day.   Read more about us or contact us .
Copyright ©2018, Washington Press. All Rights Reserved.
