Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The list includes people who represent different topics President Donald Trump is expected to speak on during his national address.
Post to Facebook
State of the Union 2019: Donald Trump's guest list hits on all his expected talking points The list includes people who represent different topics President Donald Trump is expected to speak on during his national address. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/02/04/state-union-2019-donald-trumps-guest-list/2773856002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
State of the Union 2019: Donald Trump's guest list hits on all his expected talking points
The USA TODAY Network Published 10:16 p.m. ET Feb. 4, 2019 | Updated 8:42 a.m. ET Feb. 5, 2019
CLOSE
Beyond State of the Union highlights, we've got what to watch for from notable guests to memes and gaffes. USA TODAY
President Donald Trump has announced who will attend Tuesday's State of the Union as his guests. 
The list includes people who represent different topics Trump is expected to speak on during his national address . Those topics include immigration, border security, the economy, the military and criminal justice reform.
The president's speech was delayed a week because of the shutdown and comes as lawmakers try to avoid a second shutdown over funding the construction of a border wall. 
Several lawmakers have announced who they plan to bring as a guest . Here is a look at who the White House said will attend as guests of President Trump. USA TODAY will livestream the speech and produce live coverage of Trump's remarks and the response from Democrats. 
Debra Bissell, Heather Armstrong, and Madison Armstrong
 (Photo: White House)
Family members of Gerald and Sharon David will attend to represent the Reno, Nevada, couple. The Davids were killed in January after police said a man suspected of being in the country illegally killed shot them during a robbery . 
The Davids' daughter Debra Bissell, granddaughter Heather Armstrong, and great-granddaughter Madison Armstrong – making up three generations of the family – will attend in their honor.
Matthew Charles
 (Photo: White House)
Matthew Charles will attend as the first prisoner to be released because of the First Step Act. He was released on January 3 after being sentenced to 35 years in prison for drug-related offenses. 
The First Step Act gives judges more discretion in sentencing offenders for nonviolent crimes, particularly drug offenses, and strengthen rehabilitation programs for former prisoners. It would also call for placing federal prisoners closer to home – no more than 500 miles – so families could visit more often.
Charles found God, taught GED classes and became a law clerk while in prison, according to the White House. 
Grace Eline
 (Photo: White House)
Doctors discovered a mass on Grace Eline's pituitary gland in April 2018. After a series of seemingly never-ending scans and tests, the family received a diagnosis of germ cell brain tumor , a rare cancer. She was 9 years old. 
She has since finished several rounds of chemotherapy and shows no evidence of the disease, according to the White House. 
Ashley Evans
 (Photo: White House)
Ashley Evans will attend as the one-year anniversary nears of her recovery from drug addiction. Evans spent much of her life battling opioid and substance abuse, according to the White House. 
She will be in recovery for a year on Feb. 9 and will be reunited with her daughter on Feb. 15, according to the White House. 
Elvin Hernandez
 (Photo: White House)
Trump has spent a considerable amount of time talking about human trafficking along the border. Elvin Hernandez, a special agent with the Department of Homeland Security, investigates drugs, gangs and human trafficking, according to the White House. 
Hernandez has spent more than 18 years working in federal law enforcement. 
Roy James
 (Photo: White House)
Roy James will represent the Vicksburg Forst Products lumber facility that the White House said has reopened thanks to "provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
The White House says the plan was saved after being declared an "Opportunity Zone". 
Timothy Matson
 (Photo: White House)
Timothy Matson was one of the Pittsburgh Police Department officers who responded to the mass shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue that claimed 11 lives . 
Matson suffered multiple gunshots wounds while responding to the tragedy. 
Judah Samet
 (Photo: White House)
Samet, a Holocaust survivor, served as a paratrooper and radioman in the Israeli Defense Forces before moving to the United States in the 1960s, according to the White House. 
Joshua Trump
 (Photo: White House)
The sixth grader from Wilmington, Delaware, is expected to attend the State of the Union to represent bullying prevention, a key element of an initiative Melania Trump named "Be Best."
Tom Wibberly
 (Photo: White House)
Tom Wibberley's son Graig was killed on the bombing of the USS Cole in Yemen. Graig Wibberley was 19 at the time of his death and was one of 17 crew members to be killed in the 2000 attack. 
A scholarship fund was created in his memory for students studying computer science, according to the White House. 
Alice Marie Johnson smiles during an interview at her lawyers office in Memphis, Tenn.
 (Photo: Mark Weber/The Commercial Appeal)
Alice Marie Johnson, a mother and grandmother, was serving a life sentenced after being convicted as part of a multi-million dollar Houston-to-Memphis cocaine operation that ran from June 1991 to September 1994.
Authorities said it was fueled by drugs that originated with the Cali drug cartel from Colombia. She was granted clemency by Trump in June 2018. 
His decision came after an appeal from reality television star Kim Kardashian West. The White House says Johnson is now "dedicated her life to helping those who are in a similar position." 
Contributing: Associated Press, Reno Gazette-Journal, Memphis Appeal, Delaware Online, Daily Record
