Already a member?
Trump Failed To Excel At Wharton
by: John A. Byrne on  February 16, 2017 | 25 Comments 9,350 Views
February 16, 2017
For years, profiles of Donald Trump have prominently noted that he “graduated first in his class” at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in 1968. But a new review of the dean’s list in the year he graduated from Wharton’s undergraduate program shows that he wasn’t even in the top 15% of his class.
According to The Daily Pennsylvanian , the student newspaper, a published list of 56 students who were on the Wharton’s Dean List, representing the top 15% of the class, failed to include Trump. A 1968 Commencement Program also showed that Trump failed to graduate with any honors, despite his previous claim that he was first in his graduating class.
The program, acquired by the newspaper from the Penn Archives, lists 20 Wharton award and prize recipients, 15 cum laude recipients, four magna cum laude recipients and two summa cum laude recipients for the Class of 1968. “Trump’s name appears nowhere on those lists,” reported the newspaper which reprinted the program from the May graduation (see below).
Wharton’s 1968 commencement program
CLASSMATES CLAIM TRUMP DID NOT ‘SEEM TO CARE ABOUT BEING PREPARED’ FOR CLASS
Trump arrived at Wharton in 1966 as a junior transfer from Fordham University, driving a Ford convertible. The New York Times in 1984 reported that numerous profiles of Trump noted that he “graduated first in his class,” and Trump has consistently claimed that he is a “smart person” who has a degree from a highly prestigious business school.
But many of Trump’s peers in the Wharton Class of 1968 agree that he did not stand out academically, the report added. The newspaper quoted 1968 Wharton graduate Louis Calomaris who recalled that “Don … was loath to really study much.”
Calomaris said Trump would come to study groups unprepared and did not “seem to care about being prepared.” He added that Trump’s academic passivity likely stemmed from his passion for engaging directly in the real estate business.
‘THE DUMBEST GODDAMN STUDENT I EVER HAD’
“He spent all his weekends in New York because residential real estate is a weekend business,” Calomaris told the Pennsylvanian which noted that five of Trump’s other classmates confirmed the alum’s claims. “He was not an intellectual man, but that wasn’t what his goal was,” Calomaris added. “He’s not an intellectual now, [and] that’s pretty obvious … [w]hat I saw early on was an unbounded ambition that did come to fruition, because it matched his firm’s needs, and that’s how these things work.”
One of Trump’s marketing professors at Wharton, the late William Kelley, apparently thought little of his student. A close friend of the professor, Frank DiPrima, said that
Kelley told him 100 times over three decades that “Donald Trump was the dumbest goddam student I ever had.” “I remember his emphasis and inflection — it went like this — ‘Donald Trump was the dumbest goddam student I ever had,’” DiPrima wrote .  “Dr. Kelley told me this after Trump had become a celebrity but long before he was considered a political figure.  Dr. Kelley often referred to Trump’s arrogance when he told of this — that Trump came to Wharton thinking he already knew everything.”
Yes, if you are wanting to make your professional career ...
This seems like a smart solution to the inherent differences ...
The tuition amount is correct for the UT Dallas online ...
Would an Indian still choose any of the top 3 ...
This is just a silly marketing gimmick without adding value ...
Stay Connected
Website Design By: Yellowfarmstudios.com
Join Today!
Poets&Quants is with you on every step of your business school journey and career path. Members gain access our premium resources, written and curated by industry experts.
Always FREE to Every Reader
P&Q Accelerator
Accelerate your membership to our community with a recurring monthly subscription or single-payment quarterly subscription and add these member-only benefits:
Full access to in-depth articles and commentary about current MBA issues and the world's leading business schools
Hard-to-find data and analysis on the latest MBA admission trends, statistics and MBA salaries and industry choices
Member-only access to quarterly webinars with MBA admissions directors and corporate recruiters
Accelerator Members have the option to be included in an annual resume book compiled and sent to the largest employers of MBAs globally
Access to exclusive quarterly webinars with leading admission consultants who will help you get into a highly selective MBA program
$25 discount on all Poets&Quants events, including the Poets&Quants preMBA Networking Festival in NYC
P&Q Accelerator
$59.99
P&Q Insider
A single-payment annual subscription to take advantage of P&Qs extensive network and add these benefits only for P&Q Insiders:
Insider membership comes with all of the Accelerator benefits, plus
One-hour individual admissions consulting sessions with a P&Q preferred MBA Admissions Consultant
Monthly briefings with P&Q Founder John A. Byrne on the latest application trends, rankings, and developments at the world's top schools
Access to exclusive monthly hour-long group coaching sessions with the legendary Sandy Kreisberg
Invitation to an Insider-only annual dinner hosted by P&Q Founder John A. Byrne in New York and San Francisco
$50 discount on all Poets&Quants events, including the Poets&Quants preMBA Networking Festival in NYC
Priority for a free MBA profile assessment in our Handicapping Your MBA Odds series and other Poets&Quants events where space is limited
P&Q Insider
You can cancel your membership at any time. We do not offer refunds, however, delivery and accompanying benefits will continue for the remainder of the current billing period.  You may cancel by emailing feedback@porticopay.com or, you may notify us of your intent to cancel at any time by emailing feedback@porticopay.com.
Fall 2019 MBA ADMIT?
Find out how to land your dream job now that you're competing with the best of the best.
