Our website uses cookies to improve its performance and enhance your user experience. Through cookies, certain personal data is collected and may be stored temporarily. You can change your cookie settings through your browser. More info: Privacy Policy
©                     REUTERS / Jose Luis Gonzalez
The central European country became the bloc’s frontier amid the 2015 migration crisis, when hundreds of thousands of people fleeing conflicts and poverty in the Middle East and Africa headed to the EU, seeking a better life. According to the Hungarian foreign minister, border barriers have helped Budapest successfully reduce illegal migration.
Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó has told Breitbart that his country understands Donald Trump’s “endeavour to protect the people and the country of the US from illegal migration”, which previously led to the longest partial government shutdown in American history. He insisted that from its relatively recent experience, Hungary “understood that without a physical infrastructure, basically, it is impossible to make sure that no illegal migrants come in”.
“So we understand his endeavour very much, and what I can tell you is that since we consider the US as an ally and as a friend, the only thing we can do is cross our fingers that he succeeds with protecting the citizens of the US”, the diplomat stated, expressing his hope that the American people would benefit from Trump’s future success “without any kind of willingness to interfere into domestic issues”.
Szijjártó cited his country’s own experience in dealing with illegal migrants, noting, however, that the Hungarian border is much shorter compared to the American southern border. He stated that Trump’s approach is similar to Hungary ’s, as Budapest has also resorted to building a layered border barrier to ensure the security of the country and its people, which he described as “an obligation of the state”. The massive influx of illegal migrants prompted them to build infrastructure to prevent illegal border crossing.
“Basically, what I can tell you is that regardless of the continuous attempt to break in, we were successful to protect the border, because if you have physical infrastructure, and you have well-trained personnel there, you can basically make it impossible for people to violate your border”, he said.
According to the Hungarian government, the number of illegal border crossings has dropped from over 391,000 in 2015 to fewer than 2,000 in 2017 and 2018 combined. At the same time, the minister described the border situation at the beginning of the 2015 migrant crisis as “terrible”, with thousands violating the Hungarian border, which means “disrespect towards a country”, according to him.
“They have rejected any kind of co-operation with the local authorities; they have not gone to the designated areas for migrants; they have occupied public areas; they have threatened the people; with their behaviour they have frightened the people”, he stated emphasizing that migrants not showing respect towards the host country’s regulations and its way of life, rules of behaviour, culture and people was “unacceptable”.
The Hungarian government has long been critical of the EU's open-door border policy, rejecting migrant relocation quotas and setting up border fences. In September, Prime Minister Viktor Orban made it plain that  Hungary would not change its policy concerning illegal migration and that it would stand up to the European Union "if needed".
...
Related:
Add Comment
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Save
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Sputnik push notifications
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy
Register
* All fields are required
Please confirm your e-mail to continue. Confirmation instructions have been sent to
Are you sure you want to delete your Sputniknews.com account?
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy . It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy.
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com .
Next
Community standards
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
does not correspond with the subject of the post;
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
violates the rights of minors, causing them harm in any form, including moral damage;
contains ideas of extremist nature or calls for other illegal activities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
contains insults or messages expressing disrespect to Sputnik;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
describes or references scenes of violence, cruelty to animals;
contains information about methods of suicide, incites to commit suicide;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
promotes products or services of third parties without proper authorization;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
contains spam, advertises spamming, mass mailing services and promotes get-rich-quick schemes;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
contains links to viruses and malicious software;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
“floods” the discussion thread with a large number of incoherent or irrelevant messages;
violates etiquette, exhibiting any form of aggressive, humiliating or abusive behavior ("trolling");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
User ID
An explanation of the actions which were in violation of the rules above and resulted in the lock.
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Log in
