PROGRAM FEATURES:
Early check-in and late check-out
Department:
Housekeeping
Description
Passion. Drive. Enthusiasm.          These are the three pillars of our company culture. Launched in 2007, the Trump Hotels is the next generation of luxury hospitality - one that is raising the bar in the top-tier travel experience. We believe that by creating an unsurpassed regard for our associates, our associates will, in turn, create an unparalleled guest experience that will ultimately translate into the success of our stakeholders.
Our vision? We will never settle…. We will persist in the meticulous delivery of unparalleled service and experiences… We will do it better than anyone else!
The Trump International Hotel Washington DC is a Forbes’ Five Star Award winning hotel property. Our establishment tells a unique story, guided by the classic features of the Old Post Office building, the associates, and experiences that compel this Five Star team.
Position Overview:
 
 
Strong communication skills both written and verbal.
To be fluent in English, both written and verbal. Proficiency in other languages would be an asset.
Ability to follow all safety policies and procedures within work area and respond properly to any hotel emergency or safety situation.
Ability to work well in a team environment.
Ability to work well under pressure.
Must adhere to the appearance and grooming policy.
Flexibility and willingness to work overtime when necessary.
Flexibility and willingness to work on a rotating schedule, including weekends and holidays.
Ability to operate a handheld communication device.
Ability to stand for extended periods of time.
Ability to lift mattresses to properly make beds.
Ability to lift up to 50lbs.
Ability to stand for extended periods of time and continuously performs the essential job functions.
Education & Experience
Minimum 1 year working experience in any position.Room Attendant experience is preferred.
High School diploma is preferred.
 
Previous Applicants:
© 2016 Trump International Hotels Management LLC| Privacy Policy
Come and get social with Trump Hotels. Stay connected with us on
Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and all your favorite social networking sites.
