Late-night hosts questioned the outcry over ‘presidential harassment,’ socialized medicine and taxing billionaires
Late-night hosts discussed billionaires, pre-ordained healthcare and “presidential harassment.”
Trevor Noah
Two days after calling for bipartisanship in his State of the Union address, Donald Trump returned to Twitter on Thursday to cry foul about Democrats in Congress. The House ways and means committee announced on Thursday it was preparing to investigate Trump’s tax returns, a move Trump decried as “presidential harassment”.
“You laugh but it’s true, folks,” Trevor Noah said on the Daily Show. “Presidential harassment is a serious crisis that affects one out of every 320 million people in this country.”
But credit where credit is due: “One thing that makes Trump so successful is that he knows how to make himself seem like the victim when other people are just doing their jobs.” If the press reports on him, it’s “fake news”. If Congress investigates conflicts of interest, it’s “presidential harassment”.
“I bet if the cops were chasing Trump he’s the kinda guy who would try to call 911 on them,” Noah said.
Samantha Bee: 'Trump thinks bipartisanship is some sort of swingers' cruise'
Read more
But of all the swirling scandals, Trump seems to be the most worried about his tax returns – an anxiety reflected in recent comments by billionaires, whose staggering wealth elicits increasingly less sympathy from the American public. Though pundits have classified plans to tax the super-rich – those earning over $10m a year – as fringe socialist ideas, Noah cited a Politico poll from MSNBC in which 76% of Americans supported it. “That’s a really impressive number, because usually the only thing that 76% of Americans agree on is that extra guac should be free,” he commented.
There’s broad support among non-billionaire American, but of course, “if you asked the super-rich, they’ve got a billion reasons why their taxes shouldn’t go up,” Noah added. Michael Bloomberg, for example, pointed to chaos into Venezuela, while Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz warned that raising taxes on America’s richest would just re-elect Trump.
Noah was not convinced. “You don’t have to be a genius to see what’s happening here: these billionaires are fear-mongering,” he explained. “They’re making it seem like there are only two options in life. Either they have low taxes, or we starve to death in Trumpezuela. And it’s bullshit … there’s a middle ground.”
Stephen Colbert
“Trump drew a line in the sand” with his State of the Union address, Stephen Colbert said on the Late Show, “but you know a good way to erase that line? A blue wave.”
House Democrats announced a new investigation into Trump’s foreign financial interests and Russian ties on Thursday, which means that, on top of the ways and means committee’s investigation into Trump’s tax returns, it’s “bye, bye, peace,” Colbert said.
Trump did not react well to the latest developments, calling them “presidential harassment”. Yes, presidential harassment, Colbert acknowledged. “It’s like sexual harassment, only Republicans take it seriously.”
Colbert also took umbrage with Trump’s claim, via Twitter, that “the Republicans never did this to President Obama”.
“Have you been huffing the Aquanet?” Colbert exclaimed. “We were all alive then. All they did was investigate him – the IRS, the ATF, the ACA, Solyndra, Benghazi.”
You may not be able to count on Trump’s memory, but you can rely on his ability to mispronounce words. Colbert turned to his speech for religious leaders at the National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday morning, in which he accidentally praised America’s “abolition of civil rights”.
“Oops,” Colbert said in the president’s voice. “I accidentally read next year’s speech.”
Seth Meyers
On Late Night, Seth Meyers also turned to the National Prayer Breakfast – “a slightly awkward situation for a president who’s been married three times, paid hush money to a porn star and has probably at best skimmed the Bible”.
Regardless, the breakfast represents an opportunity for Trump to offer inspiring words about the moral and civic mission of the country, Meyers said – like when Reagan called America a shining city upon a hill, or Obama said America was a place to fulfill one’s destiny.
Trump, meanwhile, told religious leaders: “America’s potential is unlimited because our extraordinary people are just something that is … Nimber 1.”
“Soaring words, soaring words,” Meyers reviewed. “He’s like a guy on a date getting lines fed to him through an earpiece and the line cut out.”
Topics
Close
