By Michael Morris | February 6, 2019 | 2:23 PM EST
Nationally syndicated radio talk show host, TV host, author and American lawyer Mark Levin (Screenshot)
“But listen to how the media cover it,” Mark Levin told his listeners about how the media will react to Trump’s SOTU. “It’s embarrassing. It’ll be embarrassing. It’ll be embarrassing. It’ll be immature. It’ll be partisan. It’ll be superficial. Just watch.”
Below is a transcript of Mark Levins’ remarks from his show on Tuesday:
“I’ll tell you what’s amazing: our media think that they’re professional, The Washington Times[sic] ran that ad during the Super Bowl game because they think you’re stupid and that you don’t support the First Amendment. [“ The Washington Post ran the Super Bowl ad on "Democracy Dies in Darkness. ”] You’re smart, and you do support the First Amendment and freedom of the press and freedom of speech.
“But let’s do a little experiment here. It’s a perfect time. You, me, all of us, you’re going to watch the State of the Union address, and I know as painful as this is, watch 30 minutes of the press coverage after it’s over and after Stacy Abrams is done – and they’ll say she’s the next president of the United States. She’s great. She could be the first woman African American president. Put all that aside, all the identity politics—
“But listen to how the media cover it. It’s embarrassing. It’ll be embarrassing. It’ll be embarrassing. It’ll be immature. It’ll be partisan. It’ll be superficial. Just watch.
“The media bring us down as a society, the modern media. They drag us down. They make people dumber. They make people angrier.
“I’m serious about this. And I’m not just talking about opinion media. I’m talking about so-called news media, so-called journalists.
“And I’ve been discussing this, at some length, with my beautiful wife, and we happen to agree on this. Can you imagine?”
February 20, 2019
February 19, 2019
February 15, 2019
Copyright 1998-2019 CNSNews.com.
The mission of the Media Research Center is to create a media culture in America where truth and liberty flourish. The MRC is a research and education organization operating under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and contributions to the MRC are tax-deductible.
Copyright © 2017, Media Research Center. All Rights Reserved.
