Randy Rainbow in the parody video "VOTING!"
Shady singer extrordinaire Randy Rainbow is well-known for his politically charged parody videos. Although they started off as mock interviews with politicians and celebrities, Randy eventually showed off his singing abilities in parody music videos based on Broadway tunes and pop hits. In these videos, Randy has taken a particular interest in President Trump and his adminstraion.
Not only does he have incredibly versatile vocals, Randy is also a hilariously talented lyricist. His sharp wit and tongue are the perfect tools that allow him to create the most scathing videos, guaranteed to make you laugh.
Here are 26 times Randy Rainbow has read Trump for filth since the start of his 2016 presidential campaign.
"Ya Got Trump Trouble"
“Ya Got Trump Trouble” was Randy Rainbow’s first-ever political satire song about Trump. Randy made this video in response to Trump’s official GOP nomination in 2016, and it got more than 4 million views on Facebook. In this song, Randy warns the American people of the impending chaos that Trump will unleash should he win the 2016 election, all to the tune of “Ya Got Trouble” from Music Man.
"Grab 'Em by the P---y!"
In this video, Randy plays the role of Trump’s conscience and offers him some advice about one of his earlier scandals in 2016. The parody was made in response to Trump’s infamous discussion about condoning the sexual assault of women in a 2005 recording.
"Trump-Pence, Trump-Pence"
“Trump-Pence, Trump-Pence” was Randy’s final warning to the American public that voting for the duo on Election Day would be a very bad idea. Sadly, not even this solid rendition of “Feed the Birds” from Mary Poppins would be enough to prevent the election outcome.
"Donald Trump, Grow Up!"
After Mike Pence was booed during a showing of Hamilton, Trump took to Twitter to defend the vice president. In response to his stance, Randy crafted this Hamilton-inspired track that completely roasts Trump.
"Tweets, Tweets & Nothing But Tweets"
In “Tweets, Tweets & Nothing But Tweets,” Randy rants about Trump’s incessant tweeting to the tune of “Greens Greens” from Into the Woods. Not only is Randy completely over Trump’s never-ending stream of tweets, but he also hilariously points out all of the spelling errors Trump has made in several of his ridiculous tirades.
"You’re Making Things Up Again Donald!"
Randy holds nothing back in this parody of “Making Things Up Again” from Book of Mormon. In the song, Randy opens up with Donald spewing made-up facts about other countries and calls Trump out on spreading false claims.
"Putin and the Ritz"
Randy grills Jeff Sessions in a mock interview at the beginning about Trump’s involvement with Vladimir Putin and Russia. After breaking into a parody version of “Puttin’ on the Ritz” by Irving Berlin, Randy comes for Trump’s relationship with Putin and also drags Trump’s entire staff for failing to keep it a secret.
"Unpopular"
Randy’s response to Trump’s dwindling support during his first 100 days in office came in the form of this parody of “Popular” from Wicked. In the song, Randy lists all of Trump’s controversies and failures that have surrounded him since his inauguration at the beginning of 2017.
"The Russian Connection"
Randy takes on Trump in an interview about James Comey and his ties to Russia in “The Russian Connection." Randy sings about Trump’s failed attempts to sway the FBI from investigating his connection to the foreign country, as well as Trump’s accomplices who also tried to cover it up.
"Donald Trump’s Mango Tour"
Randy channels Evita in another parody video digging at Trump’s inability to properly form decent relationships with other countries. Instead of the “Rainbow Tour,” Randy fittingly named the song “Donald Trump’s Mango Tour” to match the president’s appearance.
"Covfefe: The Broadway Medley"
One of Randy’s most ambitious parodies comes in the form of “Covfefe: The Broadway Medley,” which incorporates a handful of big hits from Broadway. While all of these songs come from different musicals, they all explore the same issue: How does one exactly pronounce “covfefe”?
"Before He Tweets"
Randy breaks from his usual Broadway shtick and takes on Carrie Underwood’s “Before He Cheats.” In this parody, Randy drags Trump for being a complete and utter troll on Twitter.
DACA Shame
Randy opens up this parody video by interviewing Kellyanne Conway about the Trump administration’s decision to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). And of course in Randy Rainbow fashion, he bursts into song and touches on the racist undertones that Trump’s decision carries.
"Desperate Cheeto"
“Despacito” also received the Randy Rainbow political-satire treatment. In “Desperate Cheeto,” Randy decimates Trump and lists every single controversy and issue that has risen since he took office.
"Buttons"
Randy starts this video as a journalist grilling Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders about Trump and Kim Jong-un’s nuclear attack threats. When he breaks into song, he compares the two world leaders and warns viewers that if Trump continues to poke at Kim Jong-un, we might find ourselves in a nuclear war.
"All About His Base"
Randy criticizes Trump’s fans and supporters and the president himself about their lack of awareness to the problems that he has caused in the parody of Meghan Trainor's “All About That Bass.” Scarily enough, Randy explains that as long as Trump has his “base,” there’s no talking sense to him.
"Stand By Your Man"
In “Stand By Your Man,” Randy parodies the song of the same title by country singer Tammy Wynette and takes on Rob Porter, the former White House staff secretary who was accused of domestic abuse by both of his ex-wives. He links Porter to Trump, who didn’t offer any condolences for the survivors of the abuse and instead said that Porter was the one “going through a tough time.” In Randy Rainbow fashion, he destroys Trump in this country parody song that shows how loyal Trump can be, even to the worst kind of people.
"You Can’t Stop His Tweets"
Randy Rainbow tackles Hairspray and Trump’s horrible tweeting in this “You Can’t Stop the Beat” parody. Much like Randy’s other parody videos surrounding Trump’s tweets, Randy goes in on Trump’s incessant habit of posting the most absurd things on Twitter.
"Commander of Cheese"
This parody song was inspired by Kellyanne Conway’s slip-up during an interview with CNN when she called the commander in chief, the “Commander of Cheese.” Leave it to Randy Rainbow to take this hilarious case of word vomit and make an entire song comparing Trump to moldy cheese.
"A Very Stable Genius"
Randy certainly has an ear for the best songs that make for the perfect foundation to make fun of Trump’s massive ego. In “A Very Stable Genius,” Randy parodies “I Am the Very Model of a Modern Major-General” from The Pirates of Penzance and points out Trump’s habit of making himself seem grander than he actually is.
"If You Ever Got Impeached"
Randy lists all the countless possibilities if Trump were to ever get impeached for his shady actions in this parody of “If I Only Had a Brain” from The Wizard of Oz.
"Voting"
The singer makes a few digs at Trump, all while encouraging American citizens to vote during the midterm elections.
"Trump’s Favorite Things"
The iconic "My Favorite Things" from The Sound of Music was also parodied by Randy Rainbow. In the spirit of the original track, Randy lists a handful of things that Trump is very fond of, such as climate change deniers, $5 spray tans and traitors.
"There Is Nothin’ Like a Wall"
In this South Pacific-inspired video, Randy focuses on the government shutdown and Trump's obsession with building a border wall. 
"The Donald Trump Cell Block Tango"
Randy Rainbow's video, "The Donald Trump Cell Block Tango," is a parody of the original "Cell Block Tango" track from Chicago. With a couple of nods to Trump's indicted associates, Randy warns that Trump and Sarah Huckabee Sanders "have it coming" next.
"Border Lies"
"Border Lies" is a parody of Trump's declaration of a national emergency regarding his campaign's promised border wall. Rainbow, acting as a CNN reporter at Trump's most recent press event, then begins his spoof by telling the president, "Some say that you're full of shit and others, well agree/ That you're just fomenting fear with your hyperbole."
The online extension of Billboard Magazine, billboard.biz is the essential online destination for the music business.
