which challenges the security, sovereignty or
domestic tranquility of our beloved nation,
The United States of America.
WATCH:
Fans of Warhammer 40k and President Trump both found the statue to be hilarious on social media, one user remarking “They made a 5 story tall God Emperor Trump in Italy,” and others calling it “surreal.”
HAHAHAHHAHA
THEY MADE A 5 STORY TALL GOD EMPEROR TRUMP IN ITALY AND BLASTED CAROLUS REX BY SABATON OVER LOUDSPEAKERS
HAHAHAHHAHAHAH pic.twitter.com/qEwpB8LlKR
"Master-drone"… seen by the Drone
Italy’s fascination with President Trump and the global populist uprising has been well noted. Italy’s resurgent right wing populist parties have made historic gains in recent elections, and are taking steps to end the endless migration to the Italian peninsula.
Just last month, Italian Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini’s office said in a public statement that President Trump could view Italy as his closest ally in Europe.
Bloomberg News reported:
Face time with Trump is the latest ambition of Italian Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, who dominates the government in Rome and views Europe as ripe for someone to fill the vacuum left by Brexit and prickly relations with Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron.
“This is the time for the U.S. to have a new special relationship, not with the U.K. but with Italy,” Guglielmo Picchi, a Salvini adviser and undersecretary at the Italian Foreign Ministry, said in an interview at his cavernous Rome office. “We’ll be the ones for Trump to call, his closest ally in the EU.
While Germany’s economic might and France’s geopolitical influence make Europe’s two biggest powers hard to ignore for the U.S., a stamp of approval by Trump could give Salvini a boost, including against domestic rivals, ahead of European Parliament elections in May.
It appears the Italian people are enamored with President Trump, as well as the meme culture that led this writer’s satirical Facebook page, God Emperor Trump, to reach nearly 350,000 ‘likes’ on the platform.
bigleaguepolitics.com/watch-huge-god-emperor-trump-statue-rises-over-italian-carnival/
Comments
Please help us stay spam-free. Mouse over a spam post and click the X to report spam.
Get FREE Tea Party Breaking News Alerts
Get FREE Tea Party Breaking News Alerts
