(AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
By
6677
Trump can beg all he wants, but the investigations will continue.
Trump used his State of the Union address to desperately beg Congress to stop investigating the litany of potential criminal acts he and his administration may have engaged in.
After bragging about the economy, Trump said, “The only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics, or ridiculous, partisan investigations.” He went on to say, “If there is going to be peace in legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just does not work that way.”
Trump is about to find out exactly how Congress works, and it is that way.
Trump spent his first two years in office with a complicit GOP majority that turned a blind eye to the culture of corruption Trump brought to Washington, D.C. But Americans across the country elected a new Democratic majority to end Trump’s corruption and bring real accountability back to Congress.
Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), chair of the House Oversight Committee, has already sent more than 50 letters to the White House and Cabinet agencies demanding information and documents on the administration’s  botched response  to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner’s use of private email servers to conduct government business; the administration’s policy of ripping children away from their families and holding them in baby jails; and payments from foreign governments to the Trump Organization that personally enrich Trump and his family while in office.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi put some of the Democrats’ rising stars, like Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, and Katie Hill on the Oversight Committee .
Trump, his family, his campaign, and his administration are at the center of numerous investigations into very serious allegations. His begging won’t put an end to that.
Published with permission of The American Independent.
TAGS
FOLLOW US
1,572,318Fans Like
78,901Followers Follow
RECENT POSTS
Shareblue Media is an American media company. We tell real-world stories to give voice to the heroes fighting for American values. We are a rapidly growing community — reaching millions per week across platforms — that is optimistic, honest, and unafraid.
MOST POPULAR
