stop
Loading...
Loading...
The future of live TV with 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Cancel
Unsubscribe
Working...
SubscribeSubscribedUnsubscribe
311K
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 9, 2019
 
Become a member today!: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYWI...
Support us by becoming a monthly patron on Patreon, and help keep progressive media alive!: https://www.patreon.com/TheRingofFire
Spread the word! LIKE and SHARE this video or leave a comment to help direct attention to the stories that matter. And SUBSCRIBE to stay connected with Ring of Fire's video content!
Support Ring of Fire by subscribing to our YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/theringoffire
Be sociable! Follow us on:
Subscribe to our podcast: http://www.ROFPodcast.com
*This transcript was generated by a third-party transcription software company, so please excuse any typos.
Well, now that the government shut down, as over in the IRS appears to be working again, people are starting to file their taxes, both Democrats and Republicans alike. And what a lot of Trump supporters have found out is that, oh, they didn't get those republican tax cuts like they were promised just 15 months ago. Now, if you'll remember, Republicans told us, an analysts told us in economists told us that the tax cuts immediately went into effect for the, for the top one percent, right? They, they got their tax cuts immediately. It was an accent at the end of 2017, they got the IRS for 2018. The rest of us, we had to wait another year. It is really didn't kick in until we filed our taxes in 2019. So we weren't going to get our paychecks, you know, blowing up immediately. Had to wait until the next year. Well, now that people are filing their taxes and still collecting paychecks, they've realized that they were swindled and Trump voters, Trump supporters are absolutely pissed off.
And taking to twitter to share their horror stories about filing their taxes this year. A raw stories done a phenomenal job of kind of cataloging a lot of these tweets. So I'm going to go through. I'm and read just a couple here. Uh, let's start with this one from a a dentist. Jordan says, I am a Republican voter. I just did our taxes. The GOP tax bill costs my family thousands of dollars this year on our return due to changes thereby hitting us with the largest tax increase of our lives. We are middle class homeowners, homeowners. And you raised our taxes. Infuriating. Here's another one, says I have to pay $2,000 more in taxes this year. What happened? I voted for you. I thought you were fixing this. Not making it worse. I thought I would get money back this year. There's another one. Nyc Girl voted for you. Family. Have two hard working.
New York cops did taxes for years. We would pay more and get a refund at the end of the year to help pay debt. FIRSt Time in 30 years, we had to pay more in federal taxes. I'm disgusted. Another one here from Joel Services at Potus. Thank you for screwing the middleclass with your tax reform. I have never in my life. I'm 49 years old. Had to pay into the IRS until this year. We have a combined income of $150,000. The middleclass voted for you. I will not make the same mistake twice. The list goes on. I mean this. You can read more. Just follow the link in. The description is video, but there's so many of them and now I've said in the past I'm going to stop showing sympathy for Trump voters voters. But listen, this, I get, okay, this, I understand. Not that I didn't understand the others, but, but I do have sympathy on this particular issue.
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
