Give a Firework to qualify (expires after 60 minutes)
Get 50% More Credits!
30 Credits for $2
message text goes here message text goes here  message text goes here
We have a limited number of special packages per hour.
Please check back in a few minutes or when you see this tab change color.
message text goes here message text goes here  message text goes here
Enjoy VIP treatment in chat rooms, discounts on products and unlimited access to your recorded shows.
75
CREDITS
for
VIP Members have FREE unlimited access to all Feature Shows.
VIP members have FREE UNLIMITED access to all Feature Shows .
Make Me an Offer
@ 500 Credits I do Anal Action
@ 1,500 Credits I Squirt
Show Boobs and Butt!
1,500 CREDITS NEEDED
Please Install Flash
Adobe® Flash® Player is a lightweight browser plug-in and rich Internet application runtime that delivers consistent and engaging user experiences,      stunning audio/video playback. Please install the flash player here to start watching the video stream.
Turn on Audio
Antonella Lee  is Taking A Break is In A Private Show is In A Private Show is In A Multi-User Show is In A Semi-Private Show is In A Feature Show is In A Group Show is Having A Party Please Click the play button to start the live stream!
The fun doesn't stop here. Click Here Now to check out some of our other incredible models! Click Here Now to watch this show as a voyeur! This is an exclusive private show. Use the chat rooms tab to select another model. Click Here Now to get full access to this multi-user! Click Here Now to get full access to this semi-private show! Click Here to become a VIP and watch this feature show for free! Make a pledge below to join this show!
REGISTER FREE!
Private Show (10 credits/min) ($xx.xx/min) One-on-one video chat with the performer
Multi User Show (10 credits/min) ($xx.xx/min) Allows for multiple customers to chat in private.
Voyeur Show (10 credits/min) ($xx.xx/min) Peek on the current show
Pay with Credits
Play & Pay
* Your account will be charged a one-time access fee of $4.50 to start this show. This will be applied as a discount on your show bill. * Your credit card will be charged after your show is over.
Play & Pay allows you to enjoy a live show without the need to purchase credits in advance.          At the end of the show our system will process a charge to your payment account based on the          length and price of the show. Your account is currently not configured for Play & Pay; please          contact "Customer Support" to inquire about having Play & Pay activated for your account.
What is Play & Pay?
Enjoy your live show and pay for it after the show is complete.
You are pre qualified to spend a certain amount each day on live shows.
View transactions under My Account > Billing > Transaction History.
Your daily limit of $DAILY LIMIT has been reached and you are unable to use Play & Pay purchasing until          the next day. You are approved up to $SYSTEM LIMIT per day and can increase your personal daily spending limit          by visiting the "Play & Pay Settings Page" from the My Account section. You may also continue to enjoy          shows by purchasing blocks of credits here .
Your daily limit of $DAILY LIMIT has been reached and you are unable to use Play & Pay purchasing until the next day.          All daily balances are reset at midnight Eastern Time. Please contact Customer Support if you wish to increase          your spending limit. You may also continue to enjoy shows by purchasing blocks of credits here .
Tip Flood
The "Tip Flood" option will divide your tip amount (250 minium) into 20         separate tips to fill the chat window.
Tip Anonymously
i Sending your tip anonymously will hide your identity from other users in the chat room but the performer will still know that you sent the tip.
Help About Tipping
Tip Flood: The "Tip Flood" option will divide your tip amount (250 minium) into 20 separate tips to fill the chat window.
Tip Anonymously: Sending your tip anonymously will hide your identity from other users in the chat room but the performer will still know that you sent the tip.
Show starts at:
Please enter an amount to pledge, minimum pledge is credits.
Note: If the show does not start all pledge credits for this show will       be returned back to your account.
Credits
Please enter an amount to pledge, minimum pledge is credits.
Note: If the show does not start all pledge credits for this show will      be returned back to your account.
Credits
Antonella Lee is Offline. You can still chat live with hundreds of other models.  Choose a girl     from the list to the right or the Squirters category .
My FlirtPhone is On
Topic
Notice: :lovense8 Toy that vibrates with your Tips, Give me pleasure and make me wet
Send
What is Boosting?
Boosting is free and a great way to give back to models. Our system sorts and ranks performers based on a number we call their Power Score.
A model with a higher Power Score appears higher on the home page, the model list, etc. By Boosting a model, you can help raise their Power        Score and it's completely free!
TIPPING
10CREDITS
25CREDITS
50CREDITS
100CREDITS
500CREDITS
1,000CREDITS
5,000CREDITS
10,000CREDITS
25,000CREDITS
50,000CREDITS
TIPFLOOD
CustomTIP
Tip Flood
914935           The "Tip Flood" option will divide your tip amount (250 minium) into 20           separate tips to fill the chat window.
(250 to 750,000 credits. ) (50 to 750,000 credits. )
Tip Anonymously
i Sending your tip anonymously will hide your identity from other users in the chat room but the performer will still know that you sent the tip.
"Notice: :lovense8 Toy that vibrates with your Tips, Give me pleasure and make me wet"
x
More Rooms
Add Credits Instantly
Generate QR Code
Once the Feel Connect app has confirmed your connection to the site, CLICK HERE to return to “Chat Conversation” with your model. You will see the blue, glowing Feel Connect button on the right shortly. You are now ready to enjoy interactivity!
STEP
1
Download the "Feel Connect" app from either Google Play or the App Store.
STEP
2
Turn on your interactive device and make sure Bluetooth is enabled on your phone and is in pairing mode.
STEP
3
Wait until the app finds your toy, then tap “add selected devices” at the bottom.
STEP
4
Within the "Feel Connect" app, tap on the menu on the top left corner of the screen and select "Add a website."
STEP
5
Click on the “Generate QR Code” button and then scan the code. Your Feel Connect app will confirm your connection to the website.
STEP
6
Note: If you change devices, you will need to generate and scan a new QR code on this site.
STEP
7
Note: Models can only control your device in a show (not open chat).
x
Fleshlight
  Loading
x
Email performers w/ attachments
Largest Private Video Preview
Access to VIP Forums
FREE Instant Full Access
FREE 1 hour Feature Shows and access to Archives
FREE Access to Adult Star Video Archive
FREE Access to Model Photo Galleries
Credit card used:
Visa XXXX-7496 [ change ]
  Loading
x
  Loading
x
  Loading
x
I'm in a Multi-User Show! I'm on Break! I'm in a Private Show! I'm in a Group Show! I'm in a Feature Show!
You can also join in right now! Get your FREE credits and try out Multi-User now
I'll be right back! Get your FREE credits while you're waiting
You can come in and watch me right now! Get your FREE credits and try out Voyeur
You can also join in right now! Get your FREE credits and try it out now
You can also join in right now! Get your FREE credits and try it out now
120 Free Credits
Real Amateur & Pornstars
Unlimited Chat Access
Wild Hardcore Party Chat Shows
Test your webcam
Our Cam2Cam feature allows the model to view & hear you from       your personal webcam for a completely hands-free experience while in a Private Show.        There are no additional fees for this service and we hope you take advantage of this free       cam to cam service. Take your flirting to another level on our free cam2cam website.
No need to type to the model for your requests. *Simply speak to the model for more natural communication. Even show off your stuff for the model, bringing you that much closer to the action!
*Audio may not be available for all models.
Even if you are seeing your webcam video here please make sure to install the software & drivers for your webcam before going Private to avoid potential problems.
Cam2Cam Tester
Flash Player Settings: Click "Allow" then click "Close" to test cam.
If you are having touble getting the cam device to be detected please try using Firefox or Edge browsers.
Browse Cam2Cam Performers
All of our live webcam performers are equipped to support two-way video shows.  You can       broadcast your video during a paid show in any show type except Voyeur and Semi-Private.
x
VIP's Get 5 Minutes Free
to help welcome this model!
Q: How does it work?
A: Be an active VIP Member and have 200 credits in your account to qualify! Limit One Free Show per customer per model. Shows subject to availability. Become a VIP Now!
Q: What does it cost?
A: The 5 minute show is free! Afterwards the billing cycle resumes at 50cpm or you may end your show before the 5 minutes at no cost! Any remaining free show minutes will be lost.
Q: How many Welcome Day shows do I get?
A: VIP members qualify for a free show with every special Welcome Day model we offer. Just have an active membership, 200 credits, be online while the model is broadcasting on their Welcome Day then start your show!
Q: How can I find more Welcome Days?
A: Models with Welcome Days will have the Welcome Day “Free Shows” green circle to help you spot them and upcoming Welcome Days will be displayed on the calendar here .
  Loading
There are currently no other voyeur shows in progress.      As soon as they become available, they will be listed here.
CONGRATULATIONS!
SUPERSTAR
X
CONGRATULATIONS!
Join my Fan Club & get immediate access to:
5% discount on all shows with me
5% discount on all of my VODs
Access to exclusive Fan Club member content
Show up in a special color I picked when you're in my chat room!
Get special treatment from me for being such a great fan!
MORE MODELS
Add Credits Below to Continue
Information About this Room
Here is some information about the room, for example define "Premiere Chat" here so the user doesn't have to leave the page and    is better informed abut how the room works.
This feature is not available for this device at this time. Please login with a computer to use this feature.
ZIP Code Verification Needed
Before you can add more credits to your account we need to confirm your credit card's billing ZIP Code on file.
Please don't leave the field blank
ZIP Code for billing:
Sending a Halloween Pumpkin Gift will cost you 100 credits.
Do you wish to proceed?
Send Pumpkin Gift
Deal Code Redemption
If you have a deal code, redeem it now in the text field below.  Press 'Proceed' to continue into the show regardless of whether you entered a deal code.
Deal Code:
Password:
The password must be at least 8 characters and contain at least 1 digit.
