Supported by
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up .)
Good morning,
We start today with another official in Virginia admitting to having worn blackface, new data that adds to a global warming trend, and the reversal of a contentious tipping policy.
Image
From left, the Democrats Justin Fairfax, Ralph Northam and Mark Herring at an election-night rally in 2017.CreditAaron Bernstein/Reuters
Virginia’s political crisis grows deeper
The political future of the state’s top three elected officials is in doubt after Attorney General Mark Herring acknowledged on Wednesday that he, too, had worn blackface at a party in college . Days earlier, he had called for the resignation of Gov. Ralph Northam, who had admitted wearing blackface.
Hours after Mr. Herring’s disclosure, a woman who has accused Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax of sexually assaulting her in 2004 issued a statement describing her accusation in detail . Mr. Fairfax has adamantly denied the allegations.
What’s next: Mr. Northam has withstood calls for his resignation, but if all three men were to step down without immediate replacements, Kirk Cox, the Republican House speaker, would become governor. Mr. Northam, Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Herring are all Democrats.
2018 was the fourth-hottest year on record
NASA scientists announced on Wednesday that the Earth’s average surface temperature last year was the fourth highest in nearly 140 years . The five warmest years in recorded history have been the last five.
Our science reporters explain: “While this planet has seen hotter days in prehistoric times, and colder ones in the modern era, what sets recent warming apart in the sweep of geologic time is the relatively sudden rise in temperatures and its clear correlation with increasing levels of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane produced by human activity.”
Yesterday: Two House committees held their first hearings on climate change in years .
For you: In a database of more than 3,800 cities, about 83 percent recorded higher-than-normal average temperatures last year. See how your city compares .
Image
Speaker Nancy Pelosi before President Trump’s State of the Union address on Tuesday.CreditTom Brenner for The New York Times
House Democrats promise oversight of President Trump
Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Wednesday that the House wouldn’t be deterred by the president ’s denunciation in his State of the Union speech of “ridiculous partisan investigations.”
“It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” she said. A subcommittee that is pursuing Mr. Trump’s tax returns is scheduled to hold its first meeting today, and another panel began an inquiry on Wednesday into whether Russia and other foreign powers may be influencing the president.
Looking back: The scene at the Capitol on Tuesday also displayed the resurrection of Democrats as a force in Congress, our chief Washington correspondent writes.
Looking ahead: The president’s speech contained suggestions of what his 2020 campaign could focus on, including what he says is the threat of socialism .
Image
Men who were arrested last month in Deir al-Zour Province, Syria, over suspicion of links to the Islamic State.CreditIvor Prickett for The New York Times
Exodus from the last ISIS village in Syria
In the past two weeks, thousands of people — many hungry or injured — have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz, the last sliver of land under Islamic State control in Iraq or Syria.
ISIS once controlled an area the size of Britain, but the militants are now trapped in a slice of Deir al-Zour Province about the size of Central Park. Military commanders are negotiating an end to the siege.
Closer look: Our correspondent in Syria writes, “While Baghuz is the last vestige of the Islamic State’s caliphate in the region where it was born, the caliphate was always a global project, with 16 of its 35 ‘provinces’ outside Iraq and Syria. Several of those overseas affiliates are flourishing, including in the Philippines and Nigeria.”
If you have 4 minutes, this is worth it
Reminding us how to live
Image
CreditPaul LeMarc Brown
Before she died last year at 42, Julie Yip-Williams wrote a richly detailed blog about her diagnosis with Stage IV colon cancer. It was also a meditation on hope, love, family and her life’s struggles after she was born blind in Vietnam.
“The Unwinding of the Miracle,” a memoir based on her blog, was published this week, exhorting its readers: “Live while you’re living, friends.” Read our review .
Here’s what else is happening
British leader in Brussels: Prime Minister Theresa May is scheduled to meet with European Union officials today to try to salvage her Brexit plan. On Wednesday, the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said there was a “special place in hell” for those who pushed for Britain’s withdrawal without offering a credible plan.
Tipping policy is reversed: When contract workers accused Instacart, a delivery service, of wage theft, they scored the latest win for workers in the gig economy , our tech columnist writes. The company had counted tips toward the guaranteed minimum payments that it offered its workers.
More accusations against Nobel laureate: Four women came forward in a 48-hour period to accuse Óscar Arias Sánchez, a Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former president of Costa Rica, of unprovoked and unwanted touching or sexual assault. Mr. Arias denied the initial accusation; his lawyer said he would have no comment on the subsequent ones.
The 2020 election: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, has been driving around the country, alone, as he thinks about running for president. His rebel-in-moderation youth offers parallels to his search for direction now .
Women’s empowerment initiative: President Trump is expected to announce today an effort to help bring economic security to 50 million women across the world by 2025. The initiative is being promoted by his eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump.
Image
CreditHannah Mckay/Reuters
Snapshot: Above, a salute for the 67th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II’s accession to the throne on Wednesday in London. She became queen at 25 and is the world’s longest-reigning monarch.
New emojis: The 59 new symbols that are expected to come out this year emphasize inclusivity. (They also include a sloth, a waffle and a contentious one-piece bathing suit.)
Late-night comedy: President Trump’s childhood home in Queens is on the market. “Just to mess with him, Nancy Pelosi’s going to buy it and turn it into a Mexican restaurant,” Jimmy Fallon said .
What we’re reading: This Vulture article on “Baby Shark.” Bonnie Wertheim, a Styles editor, writes: “The catchy children’s song that recently broke the Billboard Hot 100 started decades ago as a campfire chant that most people only vaguely remember.”
Now, a break from the news
Image
CreditRomulo Yanes for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Vivian Lui.
Listen: To a hard smack of good cheer from the Lil Peep archives. “ I’ve Been Waiting ” has Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy as the guest of honor.
See: In Charles Busch’s latest show , he doesn’t channel any of the drag characters that made him famous, choosing instead to “see what it’s like stripping off the veil.”
Read: “Shameless,” a call for a reformation of Christian messaging about sex by the pastor Nadia Bolz-Weber, is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists.
Smarter Living: Understanding your genealogy is a fascinating reckoning with the stories we carry. If you want to make a family tree, one way to start is with the 1940 census , the most recent one publicly available. And OurBlackAncestry.com has free tutorials to help find elusive records for those descended from enslaved Africans.
During the winter, protecting your skin from the elements no longer means layering on uncomfortably thick salves. Many of the latest heavy-duty creams are surprisingly light .
And now for the Back Story on …
Women and letters to the editor
A recent letter to the editor took The Times to task for not running enough letters from women. We asked one of the letters editors, Sue Mermelstein, to explain how The Times responded.
The fact that our letters page skews male is something we’ve struggled with. A letter from Kimberly Probolus gave us a perfect opportunity to address it. When we published it, we also urged more women to write, and committed to work toward parity.
We’ve already seen an uptick in correspondence from women that has been thoughtful and telling. “It has never occurred to me that someone would want to hear my voice,” one said.
Image
CreditYukai Du
Women and men alike expressed concern that we might begin selecting letters on the basis of gender rather than merit. We won’t, but we are inviting letters from a broader range of readers, via newsletters like this one, and via the Reader Center and The Times’s social media.
This weekend, we plan to publish readers’ thoughts on why women are underrepresented in opinion pages.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
To Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com .
P.S.
• We’re listening to “ The Daily .” Today’s episode is about the sexual abuse of nuns by priests.
• Felicia Nimue Ackerman, a philosophy professor at Brown University, has had over 300 letters to the editor published. Her efforts earned her a write-up in The New Yorker.
Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a  weekly news quiz . He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations. @stanfordc
Advertisement
