Share
President Trump delivered his second State of the Union address to Congress on Tuesday night. He delivered an overall bipartisan message themed around “choosing greatness.”
He also outlined what the White House calls a “policy agenda both parties can rally behind.”
The prepared text includes this statement: “Together we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions, and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future. The decision is ours to make.”
As the President listed the many great accomplishments of America during his tenure, Speaker Pelosi frowned, mumbled under her breath, and thumbed through her notes.
In just over two years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom, a boom that has rarely been seen before. There has been nothing like it.
We have created 5.3 million new jobs, and importantly, added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs, something which almost everyone said was impossible to do, but the fact is, we are just getting started.
Wages are rising at the fastest pace in decades, and growing for blue-collar workers, who I promise to fight for. They are growing faster than anyone else.
Nearly 5 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps.
the U.S. Economy is growing almost twice as fast today as when I took office, and we are considered far and away the hottest economy anywhere in the world.
Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century.
African-american, Hispanic American, and Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded.
Unemployment for Americans with disabilities has also reached an all-time low.
More people are working now than at any time in the history of our country. 157 million people at work.
Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers, thanks to our historic reductions in taxes and regulations.
The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. For the first time in 65 years, we are a net exporter of energy. After 24 months of rapid progress, our economy is the envy of the world.
 
Now I was raised in church. Let me explain Mssssss Pelosi!
In this great country we have what we call manners and decorum. I leaned, as a very small, and hyperactive BTW, child, to sit still, pay attention, and use my manners as someone else spoke.
For you to sit there, and make odd faces, frown and smirch, read papers, and mumble under your breath, is juvenile. It tells me nothing about how you feel about the President. It only tells me that you were not taught any formal manners.
We know how you feel about this President. But you did not act a fool to the President. He could not see you. You acted a fool to the American people who could. Pelosi, you showed yourself a bad roll model to our young people. You showed yourself to be a true embarrassment.
But to do it all as the President is discussing great accomplishment we are seeing? Shame on you!
There, I said it!
Your email address will not be published.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Trending Articles
