Progressive elitists in the entertainment industry like the West Wing creator still seem to be driven mad by MAGA.
By
Liberal Hollywood is Still Reeling From Anti-Trump Hysteria
Hollywood mover-and-shaker Aaron Sorkin is perhaps best known for creating the Big Government fantasy about the White House called The West Wing, a television series that some derisively dubbed The Left Wing. He also won an Oscar for the screenplay for the Facebook saga The Social Network.
In April 2001, security guards at Burbank Airport detained the high-profile screenwriter and director at Burbank, Calif., Airport on suspicion of possession of hallucinogenic mushrooms in his carry-on bag. Officers also reportedly found marijuana and crack in the bag.
He subsequently pleaded guilty to two felony charges and one misdemeanor, but avoided jail time by entering a drug treatment program. Having previously gone through rehab in 1995, he publicly admitted that he started freebasing cocaine in 1989.
If you’re wondering about the long-term side effects of abuse, they include changes to prefrontal and temporal lobe functioning in the brain, which can hurt problem-solving, decision-making and memory, according to the American Addiction Centers .
As the saying goes, cocaine is a helluva drug!
With days after the election of Donald Trump, Sorkin wrote a laughable open letter to his daughter and her mother for Vanity Fair , attacking not only the president of the United States, but also half the country.
More than two years after the presidential election, one wonders if Aaron Sorkin needs to enter rehab again, this time for Trump Derangement Syndrome (TDS).
The Klan won last night. White nationalists. Sexists, racists and buffoons.
Aaron Sorkin
“It’s hardly the first time my candidate didn’t win,” he raged, adding, “but it was the first time that a thoroughly incompetent pig with dangerous ideas, a serious psychiatric disorder, no knowledge of the world and no curiosity to learn has. And it wasn’t just Donald Trump who won last night—it was his supporters too. The Klan won last night. White nationalists. Sexists, racists and buffoons….”
The open letter also contains a lot of doom-and-gloom hysteria that hasn’t come to pass under the Trump administration; in fact just the opposite has happened in terms of both domestic and international relations.
It was the same race-baiting and anti-Trump hysteria whipped up daily by the fragile creatures of the mainstream media. They seek to disparage, bully, and silence conservatives with these slurs, because they are running out of arguments to explain away Trump’s policy successes.
Sorkin’s unhinged rant also branded Trump supporters as “misogynistic sh*theads.” This is ironic and hypocritical in the extreme given that the #MeToo movement has revealed the rampant and long-time abuse of women in ultra-liberal Hollywood.
Hollywood is Dying
Unfortunately, the attention seekers of the entertainment industry continued to avoid entertaining and embrace politically correct indoctrination instead. As science fiction writer Frank Maddish has argued, “Hollywood is in its death throes, but even with its final breath, it shouts louder than ever before.”
Sorkin himself payed a heavy price for his virtue-signaling; audiences apparently stayed away in droves from his 2018 directorial debut, Molly’s Game, co-produced by STX Films and China’s Huayi Brothers Media Corp. About as memorable as Hillary’s “victory” speech, it flopped.
Far from being satisfied with wrecking movies, Sorkin went to Broadway to find another target. To Kill A Mockingbird‘s Atticus Finch, the idealistic small-town Alabama lawyer who dares to defend a black man seemed insufficiently woke for Sorkin, so in his version, he turned the barrister into a “naive fool” surrounded by racists, according Terry Teachout of the Wall Street Journal .
Added Teachout:
“Notwithstanding the widely reported back-and-forth negotiations between Mr. Sorkin and the estate, the result is a grotesque caricature of Lee’s novel… That sound you hear in the distance is Harper Lee turning over in her grave…But in addition to perverting its spirit, Mr. Sorkin has done an inept job of putting it on the stage…”
Soviet-Style Education
In Stalin’s totalitarian state, education was merely another branch of propaganda and a very effective one at that. It also provided entertainment.
Similarly, Sorkin and company partnered with the New York City Department of Education to offer $10 tickets (originally $200) to groups of middle and high school students. At taxpayers expense, students who watch Sorkin’s preachy and divisive play are being manipulated to believe that American is inherently racist.
Public schools across the country now serve as purveyors of this vacuous, social justice ideology. The National Network of State Teachers of the Year in 2018 recommended a publication called the Social Justice Book List, with the themes of “classism, racism, xenophobia, sexism, and transgenderism.”
To avoid such indoctrination, you might seriously consider taking your kids out of public school. It also means that you should work hard to reform the school system in your community, for the sake of the children, and the sake of our country. Remember, too, that most elitists send their kids to upscale private schools.
As for President Trump’s so-called racism, his economic policies have improved the lives of black and Hispanic Americans, just as he promised. Polls are showing a growing approval rating by blacks toward the president. You can listen for hours to ordinary black Americans who have left the race-baiting Democratic Party on the #Walkaway movement’s YouTube channel . Those who have walked away are listening to, or meeting, “deplorables” and finding them kind, decent, and not racist.
But don’t take my word for it. Conservative commentator Candace Owens said, “white guilt is a trend that needs to die.”
“To all of you white people that are pretending to be ‘so down with the cause’ that you are willing to throw hate to your own race, please stop!” Owens said. “It’s you, trying to use black people as a prop to feel morally superior to your peers. We are not puppies who need rescuing. We’re not your victims. Find a new hobby that makes you feel good about yourselves!”
Are you listening, Aaron Sorkin? Find another hobby! And perhaps seek some treatment for the disorder known as TDS.
Newsletter Signup
Dimitra Ekmektsis is a writer for NRN, author, translator and animal rights activist. Previously, she translated for the United Nations and left after she discovered their sinister vision for our world. She was born in Greece, grew up in Germany and is a legal, proud American and supporter of President Trump. Ekmektsis translated Coudenhove-Kalergi's "Practical Idealism" from German to English for Omnia Veritas Ltd.
Trending
Copyright © 2019 New Right Network. Powered by BIZBOOSTIO .
Connect
