A new low, even for Trump.
Samantha Michaels February 9, 2019 6:43 PM
Subscribe to our free newsletters.
Hours after Elizabeth Warren officially announced her presidential bid  on Saturday, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to antagonize the Massachusetts senator. As he has in the past, the president referred to her as “Pocahontas,” mocking her claims of Native American ancestry.
But this tweet seemed to take his hostility to an entire new level: “See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!” he added, a potential reference to the Trail of Tears, the forced relocation of Native Americans from their ancestral lands in the 1800s that led to the deaths of thousands of people.
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Trump is known for being a fan of President Andrew Jackson, who supported the removal of Native Americans from their home. Trump has repeatedly referred to the late president on Twitter and put a portrait of him in the Oval Office. He also traveled to Jackson’s tomb in Tennessee after being sworn in. 
The Washington Post reported this week that in 1986, Warren listed her race as “American Indian” on a Texas bar registration card, continuing the controversy Warren has struggled to overcome for months. She revealed last October that she had taken a DNA test showing that she was between 1/64 and 1/1024 Native American. Last week, she apologized to Cherokee Nation leaders for “not having been more sensitive about tribal citizenship.”
Update: Donald Trump Jr. certainly seems to agree with the worst possible reading of his father’s tweet. On Saturday night he posted the following on Instagram: 
Feb 9, 2019 at 3:44pm PST
FACT:
Mother Jones was founded as a nonprofit in 1976 because we knew corporations and the wealthy wouldn't fund the type of hard-hitting journalism we set out to do.
Today, reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget, allows us to dig deep on stories that matter, and lets us keep our reporting free for everyone. If you value what you get from Mother Jones, please join us with a tax-deductible donation today so we can keep on doing the type of journalism 2019 demands.
The Latest
Get our newsletters.
Top News
We Noticed You Have An Ad Blocker On.
Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism?  We're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget.
We noticed you have an ad blocker on. Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism?
