Marijuana Moment
Trump Allies Consider Using Hemp Concrete To Build Border Wall With Private Funds
Published
A coalition of President Donald Trump’s allies are looking into whether they could privately fund a wall along the Mexican border…made of hemp.
Former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon says that the group, which also includes former Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach and former Sheriff David Clarke, is consulting with a Kansas-based hemp company about the possibility of erecting a hempcrete wall along the southern border.
The thinking is that, because congressional Democrats are unlikely to budge and include taxpayer funds for a border wall in appropriations legislation, the group will pool their capital and influence to get the job done themselves.
“Do you understand the irony of using hempcrete to keep out marijuana?” Bannon told Politico , which first reported on the potential cannabis-constructed border barrier.
That said, when Trump has spoken about his reasons for wanting a border wall when it comes to impeding drug trafficking, he usually focuses on opioids, cocaine and methamphetamine, and hasn’t mentioned cannabis in relation to the project.
And of course, the wall isn’t singularly about preventing drug trafficking. According to Trump, it’s also meant to deter illegal immigration, which has already been  decreasing steadily since 2007. The president’s claim that there’s an ongoing humanitarian crisis on the southern border that demands a physical barrier has been characterized by Democratic lawmakers as a xenophobic attempt to rally his base and make good on a campaign promise that initially involved having Mexico foot the bill.
“Do you understand the irony of using hempcrete to keep out marijuana?" says Steve Bannon, of the effort to build a private border wall, which he has secretly helped orchestrate. Hempcrete is a building material made out of hemp. https://t.co/AXkSnfP1AV
It’s not clear whether the president would back a proposal to erect a privately funded wall made of hemp. A White House spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Marijuana Moment.
America’s Hemp Academy, the company that Bannon’s group reportedly partnered with, also did not reply to a request for comment by the time of publication. The company—founded by a “serial entrepreneur” who also owns a chain of delis, a bread manufacturing company and an outdoor wildlife hunting retreat— launched just two months ago, according to the Kansas City Business Journal.
One thing is for sure: using hempcrete for a large-scale infrastructure project would’ve been harder to achieve just months ago, when the crop was federally illegal to grow in the U.S. outside of limited research programs, and only imports from other countries were allowed. But since Trump signed the 2018 Farm Bill into law , legalizing hemp, more widespread domestic cultivation is on the way and costs for products like hempcrete are likely to drop.
Experts expressed strong doubts to Politico, though, that Bannon’s group could raise enough funds to actually execute their plan. Whether it’s made of hemp or some other material, coming up with enough money to build a wall stretching thousands of miles would set investors back by billions of dollars—not to mention the potential regulatory complications a private company would face dealing with federal departments like the Environmental Protection Agency.
Still, as far as border wall proposals go, a hempcrete barrier would at least represent a more environmentally sustainable material as compared to normal concrete. But again, the practical and political hurdles that the White House and outside groups face in securing funding for any kind of barrier have proved daunting.
Photo courtesy of Brendan Cleak.
Marijuana Moment is made possible with support from readers. If you rely on our cannabis advocacy journalism to stay informed, please consider a monthly Patreon pledge.
You may like
Published
A New Hampshire House committee approved a bill to legalize and regulate marijuana in the state on Thursday.
The legislation , which would allow adults 21 and older to possess, purchase and gift up to one ounce of cannabis and grow up to six plants (three of which could be mature), cleared the House Criminal Justice and Public Safety Committee in a 10-9 vote.
A governor-appointed commission would be responsible for issuing licenses for marijuana cultivators, product manufacturers, testing facilities and retailers. Possession and home cultivation would be legal 60 days after the bill passes, and the first retail licenses would be issued in November 2020.
The bill also provides for the expungement of prior convictions for cannabis-related offenses that were made legal.
This is the first time that the committee has advanced such legislation, according to the Marijuana Policy Project (MPP). Last year, the panel rejected a similar proposal, but the full House voted to overturn that recommendation and then it passed an amended version of the bill that excluded commercial sales. It later died before making its way to the Senate, however.
While some committee members expressed reservations about the health impacts of marijuana and raised doubts about revenue from legal sales, others like Rep. Will Pearson (D) said such concerns are overblown and that the time to legalize “was yesterday—beyond yesterday.”
Pearson adds health effects of marijuana should not be related to alcohol, but rather compared with coffee and sugar.
Also says NH is behind curve. “The time to do this was yesterday – beyond yesterday.” #nhpolitics
“We applaud the committee for recognizing that marijuana prohibition is an outdated and increasingly unpopular policy that has failed to accomplish its public health and safety objectives,” Matt Simon, New England political director at MPP, said in a press release. “It’s time for New Hampshire to adopt a more sensible system in which cannabis is legal for adults 21 and older and regulated in order to protect consumers and the public.”
“We are very pleased that the committee tasked with overseeing criminal justice and public safety has recommended the passage of this legislation,” he said. “Passage of this bill would be terrible news for illicit drug dealers and good news for proponents of smarter, more effective drug policies.”
Gov. Chris Sununu (R) opposes legalizing cannabis, but House Speaker Steve Shurtleff has said he believes there are enough votes in his chamber, and perhaps also in the Senate, to override a potential veto .
—
Marijuana Moment is already tracking more than 700 cannabis bills in state legislatures and Congress this year. Patreon supporters pledging at least $25/month get access to our interactive maps, charts and hearing calendar so they don’t miss any developments.
—
During the last week alone, a Vermont Senate committee approved a bill to allow cannabis sales, the West Virginia House passed a piece of marijuana banking legislation  and a Missouri House committee cleared a bill to provide for the expungement of certain marijuana convictions. On Wednesday, North Dakota’s House narrowly rejected cannabis decriminalization legislation.
Marijuana Moment is made possible with support from readers. If you rely on our cannabis advocacy journalism to stay informed, please consider a monthly Patreon pledge.
Published
“Mayor Pugh, stop pot arrests. Solve murders instead.”
That’s the message the advocacy group Mothers of Murdered Sons and Daughters United (MOMS) is sending to Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh and local police officials after they declined to embrace a marijuana policy change at the city attorney’s office.
Important billboard from @momsstopmurder around Baltimore today urging @MayorPugh50 & Baltimore PD to focus on real public safety: prioritize solving murders, not arrests for pot possession https://t.co/4LZ0cSxnIc
The office announced last month that it would no longer prosecute people for cannabis possession  and will move to  expunge the records of individuals with prior convictions going back to 2011.
Pugh said that she supports what Baltimore State’s Attorney Marylin Mosby is “attempting to address, namely the unnecessary criminalization of those who possess marijuana merely for personal use,” but that illicit drug sales “fuel criminality in our neighborhoods, which leads to violence.”
MOMS sees it differently. The organization , which advocates and provides services for victimized families “to move toward healing,” is frustrated over low police clearance rates for homicide and feels that prosecuting people for non-violent marijuana offenses is a waste of law enforcement resources.
And that frustration escalated after Interim Baltimore Police Commissioner Gary Tuggle dismissed the city attorney’s policy change and said his officers would continue to arrest people for cannabis possession.
To bring attention to the issue, MOMS will be driving a truck around City Hall and police headquarters with a billboard featuring the mayor and their message. The group also launched a  website  outlining its concerns:
“The Baltimore Police Department has said that it will still arrest people for having marijuana, even though the State’s Attorney no longer prosecutes marijuana possession in Baltimore. Mayor Pugh can demand that her new police commissioner stop wasting law enforcement resources on pot possession arrests.”
For the past three years, there’s been an average of one homicide a day in Baltimore. Arrests were made in just 27 percent of such cases in 2017.
At least one recent study supports the idea that ending cannabis criminalization can help police prioritize more serious crimes. An analysis of law enforcement clearance rates in Colorado and Washington state showed that police started making more arrests for violent and property crimes after the states legalized—a trend that didn’t occur in non-legal states.
Photo courtesy of MOMS .
Marijuana Moment is made possible with support from readers. If you rely on our cannabis advocacy journalism to stay informed, please consider a monthly Patreon pledge.
Published
By a close margin, the North Dakota House rejected a bill to decriminalize low-level marijuana possession in the state on Wednesday.
The legislation , introduced by Rep. Shannon Roers Jones (R), would have removed criminal penalties for possession of up to one ounce or two cannabis plants. Instead of the current misdemeanor offense punishable by up to 30 days in jail and a $1,500 fine, simple possession would’ve been a non-criminal infraction that carries a $200 fine.
Individuals who are convicted of possessing more than an ounce of cannabis, a misdemeanor offense, could’ve had their court records sealed as long as they are “not subsequently convicted within two years of a further [marijuana] violation.” As the law currently stands, possession over an ounce is a felony offense.
Possessing marijuana paraphernalia would have also been treated as a non-criminal offense under the bill, punishable by a $100 fine. The proposal would have also created a misdemeanor penalty for anyone found guilty of distributing marijuana to an individual under 21.
Members of the House voted against the legislation in a 43-47 vote, with four abstentions.
Roers Jones told Marijuana Moment in an email after the vote that she and other supporters are “working on a work around.”
People found with under an ounce would be given a ticket (which is the practice in Fargo) to allow law enforcement the ability to focus on larger drug crimes (distribution/opioids/violence/theft).
Gov. Doug Burgum (R)  supports the proposal.
North Dakota voters rejected an adult use legalization initiative during the November midterm elections after voting to approve medical cannabis two years earlier, but lawmakers quickly got to work drafting more modest cannabis reform bills like Roers Jones’s decriminalization proposal.
“It’s a different way of looking at our criminal justice system rather than just meting out punishment and trying to figure out how to lead people towards rehabilitation and give them an opportunity to reset their lives,” she told Inforum.
Marijuana Moment is made possible with support from readers. If you rely on our cannabis advocacy journalism to stay informed, please consider a monthly Patreon pledge.
Email address:
Marijuana News In Your Inbox
Email address:
