Thank you for Reading!
Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading.
Thank you for Reading!
Please log in, or sign up for a new account to continue reading.
×
Thank you for Reading! We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.
You are the owner of this article.
My Account
By Mike Murphy
Feb 11, 2019
If you like watching dumb commercials and record-setting punts, then Super Bowl LIII should have been right up your alley. If I wanted to stare at guys running up and down a field for an eternity without scoring points, I would watch a soccer game.
Including the pregame and postgame shows, Super Bowl broadcasts average around four hours. That means fans who have sat through all 53 Super Bowls have wasted around nine entire days of their lives watching Bud Light commercials. The mere thought of that is enough to make a guy go to the fridge and get a beer.
×
Story continues below video
I would guess a lot of fans out there are finally figuring out that the whole purpose of the ‘Big Game’ is to sell stuff. It has very little to do with football although a few plays are shown to fill in time between commercials.
And what exciting football plays they were this year! Punt, punt, punt, fourteen punts total. So, if you paid the average ticket price of $4,000 for a seat at the game, you forked out around $300 per punt. Lucky you!
Although there were 60 minutes of football malfunction out on the field, fortunately the halftime show did not have a Janet Jackson-like wardrobe malfunction, though Maroon 5 lead singer Adam Levine’s entire outfit may have qualified.
It’s quite a coincidence that such a boring football game also featured one of the most boring halftime performances ever. Personally, I recall only two memorable Super Bowl halftime performances: Lady Gaga and The Rolling Stones. Lady Gaga’s because it was daring and dynamic; the Stones’. . . well, because they’re the Stones.
With only two days to recover from Sunday’s snoozer of a Super Bowl, it seemed like cruel and unusual punishment for Americans to be subjected to Donald Trump’s benumbing State of the Union speech on Tuesday.
Why is it that every time Mr. Trump attempts to sound sincere when addressing the public by using a robotic, unemotional voice, it comes across as if you’re having a conversation with Alexa?
The contrast between Trump the on-script speaker attempting to act presidential while addressing the nation and Trump the totally wigged out, rabble-rousing pep rally speaker talking to hand-picked members of his base is quite jarring. The question is which one is the “realDonaldTrump.” Which one should we believe?
Both Donald Trumps were on display last Tuesday. That evening at his State of the Union speech Trump was on-script for 82 minutes addressing the nation. But earlier in the day he spoke off the cuff at a private lunch for television anchors.
During his SOTU speech, Trump stressed the need for bipartisan cooperation to achieve what’s best for the country: “Together, we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions ...”
According to the Feb. 5 New York Times, here’s what Trump said a few hours earlier at the luncheon when discussing Joe Biden as a potential opponent in the 2020 presidential election: “I hope it’s Biden. Biden was never very smart. He was a terrible student. His gaffes are unbelievable. When I say something that you might think is a gaffe, it’s on purpose; it’s not a gaffe. When Biden says something dumb, it’s because he’s dumb.” Hmmm, doesn’t sound like an attempt to “bridge old divisions” to me.
In the SOTU speech Trump said working together we can “heal old wounds. . ..” At the luncheon when asked about facing Elizabeth Warren in 2020, Trump’s reply was, “I hope I haven’t wounded Pocahontas too badly. I’d like to run against her.” Well, probably not going to “heal old wounds” by wounding people repeatedly with demeaning nicknames.
Trump implied that he will work to “build new coalitions” during his SOTU presentation. Yet, when asked at the luncheon how it was to work with Democratic congressional leaders, Trump said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer “can be a nasty son of a bitch.” Just a wild guess, but it sounds like Mr. Trump may have better luck building his wall than building “new coalitions.”
In his nationwide speech, Mr. Trump certainly attempted to talk the talk when he said “Victory is not winning for our party. Victory is winning for our country.”
But then he failed to walk the walk at the afternoon get together where he resumed his digs at deceased war hero and Republican Senator John McCain who voted country over party when it came to repealing President Obama’s health care plan, securing Trump’s juvenile bitterness in the process.
Referring to McCain’s book “The Restless Wave,” Trump chose to go low, stating, “By the way, he wrote a book and the book bombed.”
In the book, McCain described Trump this way: “Flattery secures his friendship, criticism his enmity.” And every time “realDonaldTrump” opens his mouth off-script, he proves Sen. McCain to be right.
Mike Murphy of Pocatello is an award-winning columnist whose articles are syndicated by Senior Wire.
Tags
Special Offers
Daily Headlines
Common Submissions
