Primary Menu
Left: Bezos and wife MacKenzie; Right: Lauren Sanchez and husband Patrick Whitesell.
On the same day that Bezos announced his divorce from his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Tuttle, The National Enquirer ran their report, exposing an eight-month long affair with Lauren Sanchez, who is married to one of Hollywood’s most famous talent agents, Patrick Whitesell. Bezos announced his plans to divorce MacKenzie in a statement via Twitter:
The Daily Beast reported on Wednesday that Bezos’ personal investigators believe the leak is stemming from someone in President Donald Trump’s camp. The Daily Beast also claimed that Trump used The National Enquirer’s story “to hammer Bezos over his ownership of The Washington Post, which Trump frequently maligns as a hostile advocacy arm of Amazon,” citing this tweet from Trump as evidence of the president being amused by the story in the Enquirer and mocking Bezos:
So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post. Hopefully the paper will soon be placed in better & more responsible hands!
” With Bezos’ sudden political lightning rod status in mind, investigators are eyeing individuals with ties to various figures in the president’s orbit, who might have also had access to Bezos’ or Sanchez’s phones,” The Daily Beast continued.
The fact that The National Enquirer ( and not another media outlet ) obtained the leaked text messages between Bezos and his mistress has Bezos’ investigators pointing the finger at the Trump team. Why? The National Enquirer’s chief-executive, David Pecker is a long time friend of President Trump–so Trump or someone from Trump’s camp has to be the leaker. There’s that, and then there’s the one time the Enquire referred to Bezos as a “schmuck”. So, obviously Trump must be behind this!!–Right??
David Pecker & President Donald Trump
As if only one person in the world has that opinion of him – President Donald Trump must be connected and feeding Pecker unflattering information on Bezos, right? Who else could possibly have that opinion of Bezos?
Bezos is loathed by many, for several different reasons. In this Inc. article written by Geoffrey James titled ” Why Does Everyone Seem to Hate Jeff Bezos? “, he defends Bezos and his business practices questioning why everyone seems to hate Bezos. James comes to the conclusion that it must be Bezos’ bald head everyone truly hates, it can’t possibly be Amazon’s business practices, treatment of employees, disruptive business model, harvesting your PERSONAL DATA, etc.
What exactly did The National Enquirer expose?
The National Enquirer reported: ” Bezos — a self-described “family man” — has been whisking his mistress off to exotic destinations on his $65 million private jet, sending her raunchy messages and erotic selfies — including one steamy picture too explicit to print here — and having secret rendezvous at palatial private estates. “
Courtesy: Radar Online
Courtesy: Radar Online
Courtesy: The National Enquirer
The National Enquirer also claimed to have ” tracked Bezos, who turns 55 on Jan. 12, and secret lover Sanchez across five states and 40,000 miles, tailed them in private jets, swanky limos, helicopter rides, romantic hikes, five-star hotel hideaways, intimate dinner dates and “quality time” in hidden love nests. “
THE TEXTS:
On January 24th, 2019
The National Enquirer published some of the texts between Bezos and Sanchez:
APRIL 20, 2018:
Jeff wrote to Lauren: “I love you, alive girl. I will show you with my body, and my lips and my eyes, very soon.”
MAY 11:
Jeff wrote to Lauren: “I am so crazy about you. I hope I get to see you at the premiere even if at a distance. I have good peripheral vision for you … I LOVE YOU Wendy Lauren Sanchez from Albuquerque … You fit me.”
MAY 13:
“Ok, I am REALLY missing you. I want you. Badly … I love every quirk of you Wendy Lauren Freyja Sanchez … Everything. Good night, most alive girl. Sleep well and know I’m tucking you in. I fit you,” Jeff texted.
MAY 16:
“I LOVE YOU More than you could ever know and more than I could ever express. But maybe I think you do know. Because you can see it when I touch you. And when I look into you. And when I linger on your lips,” Jeff poured into another message, according to a source.
JULY 31:
“I am crazy about you. All of you. I need to smell and touch you,” Jeff drooled in a text seen by The ENQUIRER’s source.
SEPTEMBER:
Sharing his wife’s pillow talk with his lover, Jeff texted: “MacKenzie dreamt I redecorated the bedroom. I kept doing it and it got weirder and weirder and weirder. Until I was sewing stuffed turtles into the comforter. Wife said: ‘That’s not hard to interpret.’”
Turtles in a dream supposedly suggest a period of slow progress in someone’s life.
A source noted: “Around the time, MacKenzie also started to use brighter lipsticks and wear tighter dresses to try and win back Jeff’s attention.”
SEPTEMBER 11:
Jeff praised Lauren for advising him to contact rocker Bono of U2 “for music permission. Your energy and ideas and competence and spirit turn me on,” he texted.
The U2 frontman and lead guitarist The Edge invested in an on-demand Seattle-based trucking firm with Bezos and Bill Gates in May 2018.
All of these messages raise serious questions about Bezos’ judgment as the CEO of the most valuable company in the world. One industry observer noted: “He’s like a teenager with his mistress. What could his board of directors be thinking now?”
According to a source who saw it, Jeff poured into a separate message to Lauren: “I’m in love with you. My heart has never felt safer. Lauren, my heart is so big for you, it can hold you and keep you safe.”
OCTOBER:
The ENQUIRER tracked the secret lovers doing the dirty on their spouses six times in 14 days.
NOVEMBER 19:
Lauren met Jeff at the Four Seasons Hotel Seattle. It is here, according to a source, that they planned to discuss their relationship with their spouses.
LATE NOVEMBER:
Hollywood power lawyer Laura Wasser started mediation for Patrick and Lauren; Patrick finds out Lauren is leaving him for Jeff.
Jeff told MacKenzie he wanted to separate but did not disclose all that went on.
JANUARY 7:
JANUARY 9:
Jeff and MacKenzie released a joint statement announcing their divorce.
Continue Reading
Subscribe to our Newsletter Today!
Subscribe here to get the latest breaking news from the DC Patriot
Name
Email *
×
%d bloggers like this:
