Search
The image of Pelosi applauding Trump, which elicited many sarcastic reactions, instantly went viral and became one of the most memorable moments of the night
However, Pelosi claims the applause was genuine.
“It wasn’t sarcastic,” Pelosi reportedly told reporters . “Look at what I was applauding. I wanted him to know that it was very welcomed.”
skip                             - 6
#waybackwednesday - oh yes that clap took me back to the teen years. She knows. And she knows that you know. And frankly she’s disappointed that you thought this would work.  But here’s a clap. #youtriedit pic.twitter.com/vUCX2uAUvv
Pelosi's daughter disagreed on Twitter, writing, "oh yes that clap took me back to the teen years. She knows. And she knows that you know. And frankly she’s disappointed that you thought this would work. But here’s a clap."
Stay up to date: Sign up to our newsletter
Email *
Sign up
Please wait…
We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting.
Trump warned Congress on Tuesday during the address that investigations and legislation don’t mix. But Pelosi said such threats have no place in the House, as unbowed Democrats charged ahead Wednesday with plans to probe Trump’s tax returns, business and ties to Russia.
The chairman of the intelligence committee, Rep. Adam Schiff, announced a broad new investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and Trump’s foreign financial interests. Other committees’ actions are well underway.
The day after the president essentially laid out the ultimatum to Congress during his State of the Union address, Democrats appeared even more resolved to conduct oversight of his administration and legislate on their priorities.
“The president should not bring threats to the floor of the House,” Pelosi told reporters, rebuking Trump for saying during his address that the “ridiculous partisan investigations” must end because they could harm the economy.
Pelosi said Congress has a responsibility to provide oversight, under the Constitution’s system of checks and balances, and would be “delinquent” if it failed to do so.
Send
Close
Email *
Close
Send me email alerts
Want to enjoy 'Zen' reading - with no ads and just the article?                 Subscribe today
Add a comment
Comment
Send
Cancel
Thank you!
Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in                                     accordance with site policy.
If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,          please fill in your email address in the form below.
Email *
1 comments
11 comments
7 comments
15 comments
15
Promoted content
1
3 comments
13 comments
13
2 comments
2
4 comments
4
3 comments
3
9 comments
9
Sign up to get the top opinions directly to your inbox.
Email *
Please enter your email
Sign up
I'd like to receive emails on offers, appeals and commercial info
Please wait…
We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting.
© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved
close
