www.worldsourcemedia.com
Help support world source media dot com, now, by becoming a patreon on our website.
At world source media dot com, we have early report premiers, that premier way sooner than on our youtube channel and even reports that do not make it to our youtube channel…..
Former FBI Director James Comey lied to Congress.
While under oath fired FBI Director Comey blamed the decision on an underling for not telling Congress for 9 months about an investigation into candidate Trump before the 2016 election.
The underling, former FBI Director of Counterintelligence, Bill Priestap, refuted this and says that it was Comey’s decision to hide this critical information from Congress.
Jeff Carlson at the Epoch Times released a report on Thursday that provides information from an unsourced leak of a congressional hearing transcript highlighting the testimony of former FBI Director of Counterintelligence, Bill Priestap.  The report is damning and although Priestap certainly appears to be withholding the facts in all his answers, one thing he was clear about – Former FBI Director James Comey made the call to not tell Congress about the ongoing investigation into candidate Donald Trump for nine months –
According to the Conservative Tree House, Preistap’s testimony is in direct conflict with Comey’s –
The question surrounds why congressional leadership, including the Gang-of-Eight, were not briefed about the opening of a counterintelligence operation into a presidential campaign.  The investigation began on July 31st, 2016. Congress was not notified until early March 2017.  Rep. Jordan: I guess what I’m asking, Mr. Priestap, is who made the decision not to brief Congress in this particular instance?  Mr. Priestap: Mr. Comey.  This answer seems to be directly contradicting the March 20, 2017, testimony of FBI Director James Comey. Watch that first 3:00 minutes, ending with: ”because of the sensitivity of the matter.”
Last week, President Trump’s longtime friend Roger Stone was arrested at 5am in the morning by more FBI agents than there were Navy Seals at the Osama Bin Laden raid.  The FBI stormed the 66 year old’s home and even had FBI agents on the water and in the air. The FBI also notified CNN because they were on site filming the action as it occurred. Stone has no guns and a deaf wife his age who was made to stand outside in her bare feet and nightgown while the FBI pillaged their house.  Stone was arrested for allegedly lying to Congress.
POLL: Should President Trump Declassify The FISA Documents To Expose The Deep State?
So the question is, since we now know Comey lied to Congress, when will James Comey be arrested and be the victim of FBI harassment like Roger Stone was?
Post navigation
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
%d bloggers like this:
