To absolutely no one’s surprise, the president did exactly what was expected of him on Tuesday night during his second State of the Union address: He lied.
In fact, he didn’t just lie — he embellished and eviscerated the truth with nearly every topic he touched on. And while the fact-checking members of the media were on the case, calling out Donald Trump lie-by-lie, the folks on social media were making their voices heard, as well.
Of course, the first lie was that the state of the union was strong, which is usually a verbatim quote each president repeats no matter what. But this time around, that regurgitated line felt especially stale, considering the abundance of truth to suggest otherwise.
Black unemployment is the lowest ever, says Donald Trump. This is very misleading. Re: Bloomberg #SOTU pic.twitter.com/MTdFjwYk9q
From doubling down on his failed, unrealistic promise to build a wall along the nation’s southern border, to misrepresenting the overall unemployment situation in the United States, Trump and his speechwriter apparently decided that facing reality in a chamber filled with the most diverse Congress the country has ever seen wasn’t even an alternative.
JUST IN via the @CBSNews Fact Check Desk: Trump's comments about "large, organized caravans" en route to the United States.  (via @ECampbell360 ) #StateoftheUnion pic.twitter.com/N3izzjtI0r
The online hecklers rightfully chimed in to call out Trump for intentionally misleading the American people about the state of the country, which is fresh off an $11 billion loss from the partial federal government shutdown that Trump famously said he would be “proud” to initiate.
Trump was also ridiculed for what appeared to be a false compassion for prisoners and immigrants alike, raising the collective ire of minority voices across social media.
Many seemed to look most forward to the address’ response from Democrats, expected to come from Stacey Abrams , the first Black woman  to ever do so. Abrams didn’t lie to the American people when she said her gubernatorial candidacy in Georgia was sabotaged by voter suppression efforts led by Republicans, and chances were high that she wouldn’t lie Tuesday night after Trump finished speaking.
The State of the Union memes and gifs were saturating social media as the president spoke and we compiled a handful of the best of them. See better ones out there than the ones we already have? Tweet them to us  @newsone  and we will add them.
1.
"Lord, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the strength not to choke the living shit out of this asshole on live television." #SOTU pic.twitter.com/hkYLci5BJT
3.
Ummmm.....did he just talk about  the revised NY law that “causes pain to the unborn children in the mother’s womb” but cages and space blankets for already existing children are what....fluffy clouds of serenity??? #StateOfTheUnion pic.twitter.com/8Xaq1bQZm8
4.
Trump said that if he weren’t the POTUS , the US would be at war with North Korea: #SOTU #StateOfTheUnion pic.twitter.com/6FDF4lJP79
5.
Now if only trump will end his speech announcing his resignation from office. #SOTU pic.twitter.com/RUlU5GCipv
The real BS is coming out. pic.twitter.com/h4dOw8GKjL
— Ⓥ The Daily Tomato (@daily_tomato) February 6, 2019
8.
9.
10.
Chants of “USA! USA!” breaking out in the #SOTU , as though the country didn’t just lose $11 billion from a pointless month-long government shutdown pic.twitter.com/tt3ELEnrJs
11.
12.
13.
14.
Here we go. The moment we’ve all been waiting for. “The crisis”. Here come the caravans. #SOTU pic.twitter.com/0sX234VgCl
16.
When you went out with your friends and you’re ready to go but you didn’t drive. #SOTU pic.twitter.com/4KUvBAA2CL
17.
18.
19.
20.
More From NewsOne
