Edition
Follow us on:
* Copyright © 2019 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
Inside the decade-long relationship of Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, who met at a networking lunch and once broke up because of religious differences
Jared Kushner is married to Ivanka Trump.
They were married at Trump National Golf Club in New Jersey in 2009, and now they have three young children.
Trump and Kushner are something of a power couple, serving as advisers to the White House.
October 25 marks the couple's ninth wedding anniversary.
Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner are something of a power couple.
The eldest daughter of President Donald Trump, Ivanka Trump is an unpaid adviser in the White House; she was previously a Trump Organization executive vice president and the CEO of the Ivanka Trump lifestyle brand.
Kushner, meanwhile, is a senior adviser to President Trump and owns a real-estate empire; he was once the publisher of the New York Observer.
October 25, 2018, is the couple's ninth wedding anniversary.
Below, Business Insider has collected the highlights of their relationship, from their courtship to their marriage to their family life.
1/
Trump and Kushner met in 2007, at a networking lunch arranged by Trump's longtime business partner, who thought they could do deals together. 'The best deal we ever made!' Trump says of their meeting.
2/
They started dating pretty quickly, Trump said, but it was a slow 'courtship.'
3/
Trump and Kushner reportedly split in 2008 because of religious differences. Kushner was raised in the Modern Orthodox Jewish tradition. They rekindled their romance when a mutual friend invited them both to the same event.
REUTERS/Jim Bourg
4/
The two couldn't get engaged until Trump converted to Judaism. While they were engaged, Trump described their relationship: 'We're very mellow. We go to the park. We go biking together. We go to the 2nd Avenue Deli.'
5/
Kushner bought Trump a 5.22-carat cushion-cut diamond engagement ring, and the couple wed in 2009. The wedding took place at Trump National Golf Club in New Jersey, with 500 guests in attendance.
6/
The couple lived in a penthouse apartment in Trump Park Avenue, in New York City's Upper East Side neighborhood.
7/
Kushner said Trump never cooked before they got married. Now she's apparently a great cook and prepares dinner every Friday for Shabbos (the Jewish Sabbath).
Trump and Kushner have three kids together: Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore.
9/
The family lives in the Kalorama neighborhood of Washington, D.C. They pay $15,000 a month to rent the 7,000-square foot home. However, they're reportedly looking for a larger home.
Zillow
Alex Wong / Getty Images
11/
'I would say she is definitely the CEO of our household, whereas I’m more on the board of directors,' Kushner said of Trump.
AP/POOL
12/
Trump and Kushner's art collection is worth up to $25 million. Many of their paintings are from young, up-and-coming artists.
Manny
13/
Trump said she and her husband are secret matchmakers. So far, their efforts have led to seven marriages.
Alex Wong / Getty Images
14/
In October, Trump wished Kushner a happy anniversary, calling him 'my light, my love, my life.'
Larry Busacca/Getty Images
Popular
Popular
Follow us on:
Also check out:
* Copyright © 2019 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
