A woman in West Virginia was indicted by a federal grand jury this week on charges of threatening to kill President Donald Trump. The woman, Taryn Corrine Henthorn, was slapped with three counts of such threats, which she made on Facebook and other forms of social media. If convicted, she could spend up to five years in prison and be forced to pay up to $750,000 in fines. The Secret Service doesn’t play around when it comes to threats against the president’s life.
So maybe they ought to take a look at Jemele Hill, the disgraced former ESPN anchor who is now peddling her racist wares over at The Atlantic. Because her little – ahem – “joke” on Twitter was nothing more or less than a cleverly-veiled threat against President Donald Trump. At the very least, Hill was advocating that someone rid us of our meddlesome president, and that alone is worth putting her under the spotlight of a Secret Service investigation.
Hill was responding to actor Desus Nice, who said on Twitter that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez should shout “whose mans is this?” in the middle of the State of the Union address.
We’re to understand (thanks, Urban Dictionary!) that this is something you say when a guy at a party is ruining the mood.
Anyway, Hill replied, “Nah, she gotta yell: GETCHO HAND OUT MY POCKET.”
This would initially seem to be even more obscure than “whose mans is this,” but it turns out to be quite a bit more sinister.
From a Washington Post article dating to last February:
The shooting began in the Audubon Ballroom just as Malcolm X was preparing to speak.
A commotion eight rows back in the Harlem auditorium interrupted him. “N—–, get your hand outta my pocket,” a man yelled that Sunday in February.
“Now, now, brothers, break it up,” Malcolm X told them. “Be cool, be calm.”
Distracted, Malcolm’s bodyguards moved away to break up the scuffle. Suddenly, a man rushed the stage with a sawed-off shotgun, and two more fired handguns, hitting Malcolm X in the chin, hand and chest.
“The joke here is that AOC should have participated in the assassination of the president,” explained the Washington Free Beacon’s Alex Griswold, a Washington Free Beacon reporter. “Good thing the Atlantic didn’t hire Kevin Williamson.”
We’re sure that The Atlantic will gladly sweep Hill’s remark under the rug (she’s already deleted the tweet), which is just one more outstanding example of liberal hypocrisy. Unless you think this would have been anything less than a national scandal had someone said it while Obama was president.
No? No, we didn’t think so.     
About the Author
Previous Story
Next Story
