PROGRAM FEATURES:
Early check-in and late check-out
Department:
Engineering
Non-Exempt
 
Position Overview
 
 
Qualifications and Physical/Mental Requirements
Must be able to walk and stand throughout the work shift and be able to climb a 40” ladder as well as lift 60 to 80 lbs.
Above-average communication skills, written and verbal.
Ability to work well with diverse groups of people.
Advanced computer applications highly recommended: Word, Outlook, Excel and PowerPoint.
Must be well organized, and have accurate record keeping shills.
Ability to maintain confidentiality, objectivity and use of good judgment.
Must be a team player, and be a good role model for the company, with enthusiasm & optimism. 
Must be able to effectively deal with internal & external guests. Hearing and visual ability to observe and detect signs of emergency situations.
Must have flexibility in days/hours able to work.
 
Specific Position Requirements
The candidate must have demonstrated proficiency as a commercial painter on the application of paint, special finishes, coatings, use of brush and roller. 
Wall covering experience is a plus. Must have a minimum of 5 years commercial experience in new construction, tenant improvement projects, or a hotel. 
Possess extensive knowledge of the Painter’s trade to repair and maintain the property, such as application of paint on furniture, fixtures, walls, ceilings, etc.
Able to climb ladders onto raised areas and be able to work from scaffolding.  Capable of operating skyjack, forklift, scissor lift, or other heavy equipment. 
Refinish furniture, apply acoustical ceiling finishes and other textured finishes, installation and repair of wallpaper, and sheet rock patches; tape and drywall finish. 
Maintain physical stamina and proper mental attitude to deal effectively with guests, management, and other employees while working under pressure and meeting deadlines and have specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, color vision, depth perception, and ability to adjust focus.
Withstand prolonged periods of standing, walking, bending, and stretching to perform job duties.  
Excellent customer service skills. Have interpersonal skills to deal effectively with all business contacts.  Professional appearance and demeanor.
Work varied shifts, including weekends and holidays.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Position Responsibilities
Applies paint using a roller, hand brush, or spray gun on all types of furniture, fixtures, walls, ceilings, etc.
Installs and repairs wallpaper throughout the property.
Patches and prepares all surfaces for paint or wallpaper, including sheet rock patches, and refinishes all types of furniture.
Applies tape and drywall finish as required.
Applies acoustical ceiling finishes and other textured finishes.
Advises Lead Painter of all work orders and/or projects currently being worked on, the scheduling of projects, and materials needed for such projects.
Ensures that all equipment and work areas are kept clean, neat and orderly at all times.
Keeps informed and updated on current techniques and technical methods.
Maintains a constant awareness of safety and accident prevention.
Advises Lead Painter of any unusual conditions.
Perform other job related duties as assigned.
 
 
 
 
Previous Applicants:
© 2016 Trump International Hotels Management LLC| Privacy Policy
Come and get social with Trump Hotels. Stay connected with us on
Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and all your favorite social networking sites.
