 
Saturday
Feb 9, 2019 at 3:39 PM Feb 9, 2019 at 5:10 PM
PALM BEACH — The question overheard in the foyer of the stunning waterfront mansion in Palm Beach on Friday night was not "Is Lara here?" — as everyone knew that Lara Trump would not miss a chance to help a dog — but rather, "Is Bart coming?"
Bart, the docile, jet-black greyhound with a permanent limp from a broken leg that nearly cost him his life, is the sheepish ambassador for the highly contentious political campaign that resulted in 69 percent of Florida voters approving a constitutional amendment last November that will phase out dog racing by 2020.
Lara Trump to help find homes for 3,000 greyhounds
Bart's story, his x-rays and his sweet, shy demeanor quickly grabbed the attention and affections of the guests and political rock-stars at the fundraiser — Lara Trump, the president's daughter-in-law, emerging GOP firebrand and frequent Fox guest U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz and former Florida Attorney General turned D.C. lobbyist Pam Bondi.
"They're beautiful kind creatures," said Bondi, a devout dog-lover who waged a relentless legal dogfight to to keep the initiative on the ballot — going all the way to the Florida Supreme Court — after a lower court judge ruled the ballot language was misleading. "They're like big cats. They just want to crawl up on your lap."
Palm Beach Kennel Club to end racing by 2020
The purpose of the fundraiser at the Everglades Island home of John and Terry Rakolta and sponsored by the Humane Society of the United States, was two-fold: to raise money for adoption efforts for the thousands of greyhounds that now need homes and to thank Palm Beach resident Blair Brandt, who crafted and marshaled the campaign's political and public relations strategy among a group of unlikely supporters: Republicans.
"It was a clear struggle with Republicans," said Brandt, himself a Republican and dog-lover. Animal welfare causes are often the purview of liberal activists. Furthermore, banning dog racing meant the annihilation of the powerful greyhound racing industry and the loss of jobs for track owners, workers and trainers, Brandt said.
After years of failed efforts, the stars finally aligned when some of the biggest names in the Republican universe jumped onto cause: Trump, Bondi and Gaetz. Industry push-back was expected. The line between traditional conservative and liberal causes blurred even more when the National Rifle Association threw its weight behind the dog racing industry, claiming a "humane treatment of animals" standard raised in a court ruling might someday be used to attack the rights of hunters.
Still, Brandt persisted — arranging media interviews with Trump at Mar-a-Lago and urging sympathetic conservative lawmakers to write op-ed pieces for local newspapers.
"It was a hugely contentious issue that needed pushing and I was happy to organize it," Brandt said. "There are so many issues where Republicans can lead."
But three months after the election, the industry's animosity towards the Humane Society of the United States remains fierce. The society wants to help re-home the thousands of greyhounds that will be displaced. That effort — including medical care for injured dogs, training and transportation — will cost money. 
The society, with a well-oiled fundraising machine and nationwide network of local chapters already in place, wants to help. But the industry — which has its own plan to handle adoptions —wants nothing to do with those who helped shut down their businesses. They say the society is merely using greyhound re-homing as a guise to make money. Track and dog owners are now refusing to release the dogs to any adoption group affiliated with the society and will only use adoption groups that remained silent or opposed the amendment.
Kitty Block, president and CEO of the society, said it was time to "drop your weapons" and come together for the benefit of the dogs.
"We're not doing any victory laps," Block said at the Palm Beach fundraiser. "No one has to best each other. This is about what is in the best interest of the dogs."
Gaetz, not known for verbal restraint, said he doesn't care that the industry is still sore.
"We won. Greyhound racing is done," Gaetz said. "If the owners aren't willing to cooperate they may face animal cruelty charges. We will utilize the carrot or they will face the stick."
Bondi said she intends to adopt a greyhound and keeps a list of prospective adopters on her phone.
Gaetz, who already has two rescue dogs — one whose godmother is Bondi — joked that he would have to make a choice between another dog and his seat in Congress.
Instead, he offered another solution.
 
© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse News
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
The Palm Beach Post  ~ 2751 S. Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL 33405 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service
