Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh wants to follow the money.
by
By Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images.
Prosecutors for the state of Maryland and the District of Columbia have subpoenaed a company owned by Donald Trump , seeking information about the president’s possible violations of the emoluments clause of the Constitution. According to The Times of London , Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh and D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine demanded the financial filings of DJT Holdings LLC—which owns the president’s Scotland resorts, as well as Trump International Hotel in Washington—as part of an investigation into whether profits from Trump’s D.C. hotel are “flowing to the president through his affiliated entities.”
Before taking office, Trump promised to distance himself from his web of business interests, putting sons Don Jr. and Eric in charge. But Trump Sr. has retained his financial ties to his company, and questions about how his presidency may have benefitted his pocketbook have cast a shadow over his administration, home to others — Scott Pruitt , Ryan Zinke — who’ve allegedly mined their public offices for personal gain. “We are confident that at the end of discovery we will be able to prove our case that President Trump is violating the Constitution’s emoluments clauses, America’s first anti-corruption laws,” Frosh told the Times.
Trump’s D.C. hotel has been the subject of particular scrutiny , as international officials and business leaders seemingly seek to curry favor with the president by frequenting it. But emoluments cases are rare , and challenging to prove . Nevertheless, the subpoena—which requests the company’s state and federal income tax returns, as well as documents regarding the Trump Hotel’s agreement with the United States to lease the Old Post Office building, which watchdogs have said is unconstitutional —could shed light on the inner workings of DJT Holdings.
Democrats have long been interested in the financial details of Trump’s business empire, for which he has refused to release his tax returns. Lawmakers including Representative Adam Schiff, the new head of the House Intelligence Committee, have pledged to dig into the president’s finances, including his potential ties to foreign powers. Trump has attempted to push back on Maryland’s emoluments probe against him, but in July a judge ruled that the case could proceed. A district judge in D.C. issued a similar ruling in September, allowing congressional Democrats to move forward with their own emoluments inquiry.
This article has been updated to reflect that the subpoena does not request documents related to the president’s international business holdings.
More Great Stories from Vanity Fair
— Nancy Pelosi is America’s most powerful power-suit boss
Looking for more? Sign up for our daily Hive newsletter and never miss a story.
FOLLOW
Follow to get the latest news and analysis about the players in your inbox.
YOU MIGHT LIKE
SEEK
© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.
Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/28/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/28/18).
