Welcome to Gilad Atzmon's webpage. This site provides information about Gilad's musical and intellectual activity.  
 
Hope not Hate is presented as a British anti racist/anti Fascist organsisation  but in fact it   is an offshoot of the notoriously Zionist Searchlight magazine . As if this is not enough, its leader Nick Lowles also co-posts on Harry’s Place, the infamous  anti-Muslim site and winner of the Islamic Human Rights Commission's 'Annual Islamophobia Awards ' 2006. Harry’s Place is known as a Hasbara pro-war Neo-Con outlet and is, in my opinion, far more dangerous of any English right wing party. Harry’s Place openly serves foreign interests, and promotes clear racist ideology in clear opposition to everything we hold to be associated with Western pluralism and tolerance.
Could you imagine any humanist, anti-racist posting news items  on an Islamophobic Neocon, Zionist pro-war site? Well, I suppose this is the price that we pay in Britain for turning a blind eye for so long to Zionist stooges.  
But now their game is over. I will not be silent about this or anything else - and I am not alone.  Despite not being a member of any party, league or group and although I speak with my own voice, I am surrounded by the most supportive people. Hundreds of thousands of them who, just like me, believe in Truth, Peace and Justice, as opposed to the Lies, Falsification and Deceit of Hope not Hate, Nick Lowels,  Harry’s Place and the rest.
So let us be clear about it: To oppose racism means also to oppose Jewish racism and Jewish supremacy. To oppose racism means to say YES to hope but NO to Zionist hate mongers such as Lowles and Harry’s Place.
If you ask yourself why Zionist stooge Lowles pretends to be a messenger of ‘hope’? The answer is very simple. It complies with standard Hasbara tactics. Israel and its operators have been planting Sayanim  in the heart of our discourse for decades with the hope that, when the time comes, they would destroy any threat to the Zionist mission. Judging by the level of Zionist activity against me, I assume that I am regarded now as prime threat. I guess that my book The Wandering Who has shaken them. It obviously discloses some of the most vile and sinister ideas entangled with contemporary Jewish identity politics. They are desperate to bring me down, they have recruited the entire Sayanim network- Alan Dershowitz, Abe Foxman, Jeffrey Goldberg, The JC, The BOD  and  David Aaronovitch. But in the last week they utilized Hope not Hate and Nick Lowles. 
However, I have some bad news for them – it’s not going to happen. By trying to destroy me, the Zionists have achieved only one thing- they have exposed their entire network of Sayanim and AZZ operators while I’m still there, live and kicking and shouting out loud and clear what I know to be the truth.
 
 
