0Shares
Democrats are scrambling to find somebody to take on President Trump.
If they don’t defeat him in 2020, their party may go down in flames forever.
And their top 2020 challenger just got caught in a career-ending lie.
Elizabeth Warren wants nothing more than to be Native American.
For years she has been trying to play that card for her own political gain .
But in reality, she is far from being Native American.
This is why President Trump has been calling her “Pocahontas” to poke fun at her.
And while Democrats try to call him racist for that, actual descendants of Pocahontas have come out calling Warren the offensive one.
Following all this scandal, Warren has been trying to downplay her claims of being Native American while also trying to prove she actually is Native American.
In a recent move, she released a DNA sample showing she is 1/1024th percent Native American, something she was hoping to be seen as proof of her roots.
The Cherokee Tribe, which she is trying to make seem as her own, fired back at her for the display.
And now she is apologizing to the Cherokee Tribe, something revealed in recent days.
But the apology is only coming in response to one document showing damning proof of her claiming Native American status for her own gain.
In 1986, while filling out her bar paperwork in Texas, Warren lists her ethnicity as “American Indian.”
Now the Republican National Committee is demanding answers.
In a letter to the Texas Bar Association, Ronna McDaniel, Chairman of the RNC, demanded she face discipline:
“Attorney Warren should be disciplined for lying and failing to correct a misrepresentation she made on her Texas Bar registration card. The Washington Post obtained a copy of Attorney Warren’s Texas Bar registration card. On April 18, 1986, Attorney Warren registered for the Texas bar and made a misrepresentation that she was “American Indian” on a section titled “Race.’ ”
This news is coming as it becomes more likely Warren will run for President .
She is currently the most well-equipped Democrat considering a run.
Along with having strong name recognition, she has over $13 million left over from her most recent Senate run.
She has a strong campaign staff, and is in contact with high-level Democrat campaign operatives likely to join her campaign on day one.
But while she may be the most well-equipped Democrat, she is far from being close to ready to beat President Trump.
Trump is not expecting a serious primary challenger, and already has been raising massive amounts of money for his 2020 re-election campaign.
His team is gathering contact information for supporters at an unheard of rate for a re-election effort.
Trump understands that his re-election campaign will be like no other.
There is no President in history that the deep state is working to take down more harshly than they are with him.
While they are hoping to take him down through impeachment, that is looking less likely by the day.
So their only chance is to dump everything into 2020.
Do you think Trump will win re-election in 2020?
Share This
