The case is from 9 years ago.
https://twitter.com/MediaJuggernaut/status/918176123695128576?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fredstatewatcher.com%2Farticle.asp%3Fid%3D99162
From 8vsb
HOUSTON — Houston Congressman Al Green, U.S. Representative from Texas’ 9th congressional district is being accused of sexually assaulting a former employee.
Green’s former district director, Lucinda Daniels, claims she was assaulted at her home in May 2007.
“He sexually assaulted her, she did not give consent,” said Daniels’ attorney, Chip Lewis. “He tried to pursue a romantic relationship after that, she spurned his advances.”
That’s when Daniels claims the Congressman made things hostile at work. After her resignation Daniels says Green then smeared her character to possible future employers. Daniels, according to Green’s attorney, allegedly demanded $1.8 million from the Congressman.
Ellen
You all need to research this claim.  If you google it you will see that this sexual assault allegation is bogus.
Linda S.
Listen, what’s that sound?  It’s the sound of the swamp draining another arrogant ungrateful white hating, country hating hating dumb ass racist DemonRat!  Lmao!  Wholly cow he’s ugly, what woman in their right mind would sleep with this racist prick, lol, yuk yuk yuk.  Al Green is a racist white hating country hating DemonRat with zero intellect.  GET RID OF THIS PIECE OF FECAL MATTER FOR THE GOOD OF OUR COUNTRY!!!!!!!!  POS won’t be missed.
LibertyNow
“sorted past” or “sordid past”? Good grief, can those who write these articles NOT check what they’ve written?
Cindy
Exactly, authors of articles should know that spelling and grammar DO mean something.
I HATE linking to articles that can’t even use good grammar or spell correctly. Damn, haven’t they ever heard of spell check, geesh, there is no excuse.
CountryJazz4
That gave ma pause also.  Any proof readers available? Then again  auto correct has taken me down a few times.
As for Al Green….He should have been gone long ago. He was very spiteful.
Ellen
This entire article must have been written by an idiot. “Sorted” past?  At least I had my laugh for the day.
Steve Klopfen
Attention: People with Word and Grammar Perfection Syndrome (WGPS). There is little doubt,  shooting the messenger to deflect from the story, has FAILED. …………BTW: Yes I admit, I only made a C in college English Grammar. ☺
Jay Vee
Any, you wrote that Green has a “sorted” past? My gosh and you’re a writer?  It’s  SORDID past !!!
Cattalac
Thank you Jay Vee!  You saved me the trouble of pointing this out.  If anyone hopes to have their site/info respected, it should be imperative they at least know how to spell correctly.  Where is the editing?
Jane Hall
All righty, then!  Let’s all major on the minors!  Yes, indeedy!  That’s why this poor country is in the mell of a hess that it is.  Sheesh!
Barry
Because we vote them in and they make the rules. We need to continue to “mow the lawn” till ALL the weeds are arrested.
Sissy
Lmbo! Love it!! Thank you for the best laugh of the night!
jay
Believe you mean Sordid past.  not sorted.  Otherwise agree that this congressman is borderline insane.
Not Fooled
“your honor, Zorak told me that Grogs woman was for me. We made boom boom and she screamed. Me thought she liked it”. Tune in next week when Caveman lawyer invents the wheel…….
Scott Webster
Sure there is more he a sexual predator and got away with it once.
anonymous
It’s time for all the dem and rinos get drug tested, mental check-up and take polygraphs
testing every 3 weeks. You wonder how many dems and rinos would quit automatically if
drug testing, mental check-up and taking polygraphs test is mandated every 3 weeks.
They are all full of greed, they all steal, lie,cheat, bribe and and have divided the citizens
by playing race card and misused taxpayers money.
Denise Moitoza
Why don’t they do that? I was shocked to find out they didn’t.
Patricia
No secret society members.  No pedophiles.  No dual citizenships. No Luciferians.  No satanists.  No one who laughs at the misfortunes of others.
Lichen
The expression is “sordid past”, not “sorted”.  Your needing an editor so often makes your site look unprofessional and unreliable.
JS1MILTIM
Yeah. It’s called autocorrect. It happens with me sometimes as well. I think the message is more important than the spelling! Are you a perfect speller? I didn’t think so!
Ramona
Happens to me as well. Sometimes flips after hitting post. I have self corrected the same word 2-3 times. It is the message….
LibertyNow
There’s also the responsibility of checking of what one writes. My phone & computer are always at the ready with their autocorrections–some warranted, some not. If I want to look like a halfway decent writer it’s up to me to keep a close eye on these things. Apparently this site’s writers are not paying attention to this issue.
Mark
“You’re needing an editor…..” as in You are, not “Your” possessive. LOL
Siegfried Dietrich
No, he was using the possessive correctly..saying that being in need of an editor makes your site…
so your need (you being in need of) makes you look….
Grammar was correct.
Just one of the ways to point out ‘ FAKE NEWS”.
SH
I am sure there are more of Ms. Daniels, who can come forward and expose this imposter for who he really is.     And, I hope Ms. Daniel, herself, speaks out, though the incident happened nine years ago!
Greek
Who voted this Neanderthal into office?! Such an ugly soul, it seeps out and had made him hideous.
Barry Mabe
You just don’t care how you degrade people do you. Can you imagine how bad your remark would make a Neanderthal feel? And please remember apes have feeling also.
derek
Sexual assault has probably been the only way this Ugly freak has ever gotten to touch a women. I mean, if you were a women (who still had her sight) would you go to bed with this hairy freak?
If you were to send the caveman from the old Ge!c0 insurance commercials to a few month of heavy tanning bed visits and they would look like twins!
