Advertisement
Jeremy Corbyn's 40 years of plots, lies, intimidation and chaos: Chilling biography tells how Labour leader followed Lenin and Trotsky's bloody footprint - seize power, purge moderates, crush dissent and leave the dirty work to others
Britain’s top investigative author has been uncovering the truth about Corbyn 
TOM BOWER is author of Dangerous Hero: Corbyn’s Ruthless Plot For Power 
Explores the Labour leader's extremist views and his chaotic personal life   
For 18 months, Britain’s top investigative author has been uncovering the truth about the Marxist who wants to be PM. 
TOM BOWER’s new biography paints a chilling picture of a bitter extremist hiding behind a mask of geniality.
Here, our first exclusive extracts reveal Corbyn's extremist roots; how he took Diane Abbott into his bed; his 'delight' with Brexit despite campaigning for Remain; and how his cold-hearted neglect and chaotic finances cost the mother of his three sons their family home... 
If Corbyn’s class-war politics are unchanged from the 1970s, so too are his tactics
If Corbyn’s class-war politics are unchanged from the 1970s, so too are his tactics: lies and deceit, bullying and intimidation – and getting others to do the dirty work while he plays Mr Nice Guy.
And if you want to understand how Corbyn wins power – and the chaos and misery that results – there’s no better place to look than his early career in Haringey, one of the most notorious of London ’s ‘Loony Lefty’ boroughs.
It was there he honed the malign modus operandi many now fear will land him in No 10.
Lenin was the first on the far-Left to advocate the infiltration of Labour, telling British communists: ‘Support the Labour Party as the rope supports the hanged man.’ Lenin’s idea was that once communists controlled the party, they could win an election – and with it the power to destroy capitalism.
This was the lifetime’s journey Corbyn began when he joined his local Hornsey Labour Party and discovered, for the first time in his life, a sense of purpose.
The Hornsey party was viciously split between warring communists, Marxists and Trotskyites – as well as social democrats. Starting a soon-to-be familiar pattern, Corbyn deftly gave the appearance of not belonging to any faction.
But Barbara Simon, the branch’s long-serving secretary, wasn’t fooled. ‘He was a natural Marxist,’ she noted, seeing him as a sly agitator seeking political advantage at every turn.
Douglas Eden, a polytechnic lecturer and a member of the Hornsey Labour Party, watched as Corbyn manoeuvred to take over the branch.
‘In his carefully self-controlled way,’ said Eden, ‘he presented himself to the lower orders of society, the vulnerable and inadequate people who felt indebted to him, as working-class.’
Indeed in his early years Corbyn would introduce himself by saying ‘I’m from Telford New Town’, suggesting he came from a working-class area when the truth couldn’t be more different.
Republican friend: Corbyn with Sinn Fein’s Martin McGuinness in 1995
His tactics paid off and in early 1974, at the age of 24, Corbyn won a seat on Haringey Council.
Although he never read Trotsky, he adopted his ideas to foment what Trotsky had called ‘a permanent state of unrest’ as a prelude to eventual victory.
‘You could not out-Left Corbyn,’ recalled Robin Young, Haringey’s Labour whip. ‘He detested everyone who disagreed with him. And he always got others to do his dirty work.’
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
Now began a campaign of intimidation that set the template for those carried out by Corbyn’s Momentum shock troops 40 years later. And, just like today, the man secretly driving it all swore blind that it had nothing to do with him.
So Corbyn quietly ordered junior councillors to propose motions to destabilise the moderates, encouraged activists to confront his ideological enemies and energetically recruited far-Leftists as Labour members.
Meetings of the Hornsey Labour Party grew raucous. ‘Corbyn was encouraging all the Left groups to join,’ says Toby Harris, its chairman. ‘Some arrived with fake names, especially the hardliners.’
Jeremy Corbyn is condemned as 'not fit to govern' after devastating expose 
Jeremy Corbyn was last night condemned as ‘not fit to govern’ following a devastating new exposé by one of Britain’s leading investigative authors.
Tom Bower has spent 18 months talking to those
who know Corbyn best to create the most in-depth portrait ever compiled of the Labour leader, including shocking details about the anti-Semitism of his supporters and his duplicity over Brexit.
The damning profile comes amid increasing claims that despairing Labour MPs are poised to break away from Corbyn and form their own party.
In his new book, Dangerous Hero – serialised from today in The Mail on Sunday – Bower reveals that Corbyn:
Was secretly ‘delighted’ by the Brexit result despite campaigning for Remain;
‘Inspired’ attacks on Jewish and moderate Labour MPs, and did nothing to protect them;
Has such a chaotic professional and personal life that one close friend and adviser says: ‘He is not fit to be leader of the Labour Party or Prime Minister’;
Followed Lenin and Trotsky’s blueprint to seize power, purge moderates and crush dissent while playing the ‘nice guy’ and letting Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell to do the ‘scary’ work as key allies, including union backer Len McCluskey, drew up lists of opponents to be deselected;
Employs staff in his office who are described as ‘lazy and p***ed on £100,000 a year’;
Lacks the mental agility to chair all but the most basic political meetings;
Harbours a lifelong jealousy of the rich and successful that started when he flunked his A-levels and dropped out of his polytechnic degree, although he claimed he left because of a row with a lecturer;
Almost had his house repossessed after running up £30,000 in debts;
Had a series of relationships with younger women after separating from wife Claudia, conducting them in the basement of their shared house while Claudia was living with their three sons – and a ‘toy boy’ – on the top floors;
Believes that anyone who disagrees with uncontrolled immigration is ‘racist’ ;
Has no interest in culture or in reading books;
Abandoned his vegetarian principles when he was invited to eat meat with Cuban leader Fidel Castro;
Was on the brink of retiring to Wiltshire to keep bees when he was persuaded to run for leader.
Last night, Conservative Party chairman Brandon Lewis reacted to the revelations by saying: ‘What Corbyn has done to his own party is shameful, what he would do to our country would be a tragedy. He is not fit to govern.’
Corbyn provoked further fury last night by snubbing a showdown with his MPs over anti-Semitism, due to be held at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party tomorrow.
Corbyn, along with party general secretary Jennie Formby, have pleaded prior engagements despite the MPs warning that Labour risks being seen as ‘institutionally anti-Semitic’.
But last night a Labour source insisted that Corbyn ‘was never expected to be or scheduled to be at Monday’s meeting’.
As the anti-Semitism row rages, this newspaper has obtained shocking messages directed at Jewish Labour MP Luciana Berger.
She was branded a ‘dirty little Zionist rat’ and taunted with vile abuse describing ‘all Jews’ as ‘c****’ by pro-Corbyn supporters on an official Facebook page for a local Liverpool Labour Party constituency.
In a statement issued in response to the attacks, Ms Berger said: ‘This is all-too typical of the malign culture now bearing down on many hard-working MPs.
‘Nothing will deter me from exposing the truth about the anti-Semitism allowed to fester on Jeremy Corbyn’s watch.’
Bower’s investigation will further stoke the growing fury in the party over Mr Corbyn’s handling of the anti-Semitism scandal, his supporters’ hounding of moderate MPs and his deliberately incoherent stance on Brexit.
The author describes how Momentum, the Left-wing movement which backs Corbyn’s leadership, engaged in ‘permanent mobilisation’ to cement him in power.
A ‘loyalty list’ was compiled of Labour MPs, with every Jewish MP described as ‘hostile’ or ‘negative’, while Chuka Umunna, whose father was Nigerian, was described as not ‘politically black’.
When Mr McDonnell saw Mr Ummuna interviewed on television he seethed that he was not one of ‘our people’.
Unite leader Len McCluskey, a key Corbyn bankroller, also had a ‘little list’ in his inside pocket with ‘names of people I’d like to see go’.
Bower’s book will fan the growing anger in Labour over Corbyn’s Brexit policy by setting out how both Corbyn and McDonnell wanted to campaign for Britain to leave the EU – despite the vast majority of Labour MPs backing Remain – because he regarded the EU as a ‘capitalists’ club’ which would be a barrier to his project to ‘build socialism’. He also concluded that Brexit would destroy David Cameron’s Government and increase the chance of Labour getting into power.
Corbyn only agreed to campaign to stay in the EU after protests from Remainers in his Shadow Cabinet, led by Hilary Benn. But his deliberate sabotage of his own campaign was highlighted when he decided to attend the British Kebab Awards rather than attend a major Remain rally, on the advice of his most senior adviser, Seumas Milne.
Bower writes that, on the night of the referendum, Corbyn ‘disappeared’, and the following morning was ‘seen laughing over breakfast with his team’. He says: ‘Although Milne and McDonnell admitted to voting Leave, Corbyn would deny that he had done so.’
Further evidence has also emerged about Corbyn’s real anti-EU views. Footage of him addressing the Durham Miners Gala in 2010, obtained by The Mail on Sunday, shows him condemning ‘the world’s bankers, International Monetary Fund, European Union’ for being ‘utterly united in what they want. Utterly united in deflation, suppressing the economy, and creating unemployment.’
The revelations come as at least six Labour MPs who object to Corbyn’s policy on Brexit are believed to be in talks about a breakaway movement.
Corbyn threw his party into turmoil last week by setting out a series of demands to Theresa May in return for Labour’s support for her Brexit deal, including membership of a customs union. The move enraged many of his pro-Remain MPs, including Mr Umunna, who called it ‘totally demoralising’ because it would kill off their plans for a second referendum.
Tory chairman Brandon Lewis added: ‘For decades Jeremy Corbyn peddled his blinkered world view and hard-Left ideology from the Commons backbenches – happier to sow dissent than heal division, to criticise than to seek consensus. He is not a backbench MP any more – he is a man who wants to be our Prime Minister but one who still refuses to accept the responsibilities that come with leadership.
‘He failed to face facts over the Salisbury poisoning, he has shamefully failed to root out racism in his own ranks and he has failed to set out a credible plan for Brexit.
‘He has stood by as the Labour Party, with its proud tradition of decency and patriotism, succumbed to the mentality of mob rule and has stayed silent while his own MPs are bullied and hounded online.’
The 1979 General Election loomed and Corbyn was certain Labour would win, especially in Hornsey, a marginal seat. The chosen candidate was Ted Knight, a 45-year-old unmarried Trotskyite and leader of Lambeth Council – as debt-ridden and rotten as Haringey. Always dressed in a dark suit, foul-mouthed Knight addressed everyone as ‘Comrade’, always delivered with a hint of menace.
In a campaign leaflet issued by Corbyn, Knight pledged to ‘weaken the capitalist police who are an enemy of the working class’, pay ‘not a penny for defence’, and repeal the Prevention of Terrorism Act – at the height of the IRA’s bombing campaign.
Going well beyond Labour’s official policy, the two men also advocated mass nationalisation of banks, major shops and even newspapers – all without compensation.
Targeting the immigrant vote, Corbyn spread the word that Labour would abolish border controls. Tories accused his canvassers of telling West Indian immigrants they’d be sent home if Labour lost.
Yet despite his best efforts, on May 3, 1979, Mrs Thatcher swept to power.
Not surprisingly, Haringey became one of the new Tory government’s prime targets.
Over the previous five years, the council had hired an extra 1,000 staff and accumulated a £6 million deficit, yet its services were deteriorating. Endless strikes, enthusiastically encouraged by Corbyn, had meant uncollected rubbish, closed schools and unrepaired council homes.
Now, Thatcher forbade all councils to increase their debts and, at the same time, reduced their government grants. Most sought to improve efficiency, but Corbyn demanded that Haringey’s Labour group defy the Government by setting illegally high rates.
‘We’ll be personally surcharged,’ the moderates retorted, fearing that their privately owned homes would be seized to pay the fines.
Corbyn continued to demand the sacrifice, without revealing that his own flat had been bought with a GLC mortgage, and was therefore safe from repossession.
‘Where’s that member of Militant who just won in Hayes?’ asked Greater London Council leader Ken Livingstone jocularly about a trusted comrade in his sprawling headquarters opposite Parliament.
‘That’s me!’ replied John McDonnell. ‘And I’ve left Militant.’ Livingstone admired McDonnell’s ‘macho form of class-based politics’. The Trotskyite’s fondness for a violent revolution to topple the capitalists, said Livingstone, had been learned during his training as a supporter of Militant Tendency – the hard-Left faction eventually defeated by Neil Kinnock.
Livingstone brought McDonnell out of the shadows to make him GLC deputy – and, together with Corbyn, set out trying to destroy Thatcher’s government. But the 1983 General Election – famously fought on a manifesto dubbed ‘the longest suicide note in history’ – was a catastrophe for Labour, if not for Corbyn, whose exhaustive campaigning won him a seat as MP for Islington North.
Although he enjoyed his new status, for Corbyn real life was outside Parliament.
‘Smash the Tory state!’ he would yell into his megaphone on endless marches through Islington.
Nevertheless, once Corbyn left Haringey Council, his image began to change – an illusion that would end up having catastrophic consequences for everyone who fell for it.
Few at Westminster had witnessed his vituperative campaign against moderate Labour councillors. And many saw him as a ‘good guy’ because of the way he always employed a mild manner in debate. The ‘hatred and divisions’ recalled by Haringey councillors at ‘nasty meetings’ orchestrated by Corbyn were lost in a smokescreen of indifference.
Still, some saw through him. After the 1992 General Election handed the Conservatives their fourth successive victory, Corbyn’s constituency agent Keith Veness resigned. ‘I’ve had enough,’ he told his MP. ‘You’re an anarchic shambles, without any discipline.’
In particular, he was fed up with the candidate’s obsession with leaflets. ‘There’s so much paper around that no one can open the doors,’ he complained.
Corbyn’s financial indiscipline was another irritation. Whenever Veness protested that there was no money for another leaflet, Corbyn replied: ‘We’ll find it.’
When on May 1, 1997, Tony Blair secured Labour’s return to power after 18 years, even Corbyn could not resist celebrating. The other good news for Corbyn was the selection of John McDonnell, one of 145 new Labour MPs.
McDonnell’s arrival in the Commons strengthened Corbyn, the Liverpudlian’s education and understanding of Marxism compensating for Corbyn’s intellectual deficits.
While Corbyn was uncertain how Marxist ideology fitted in with lip service to capitalist democracy, McDonnell admitted he was a member of Labour only as ‘a tactic’, because it was a ‘useful vehicle’.
Discounting the ballot box as a means to change the world, McDonnell – who called himself ‘the last communist in Parliament’ – explained: ‘There’s another way too which in the old days we called insurrection.
‘Now we call it direct action. It’s when the Government don’t do as you want, you get in the streets or you occupy.’
McDonnell was taken aback when Corbyn announced he was standing for the Labour leadership after Ed Miliband’s 2015 defeat. ‘I thought we decided not to put up anyone from the Left,’ he said. ‘Well, we’ve decided that we need a debate,’ replied Corbyn.
The only obstacle was obtaining enough nominations and Corbyn called every Labour MP, asking for their support.
‘He’s a good bloke,’ many agreed, mentioning that, unlike McDonnell, Corbyn was always polite, and never openly threatening. Soon his name was on the ticket.
Many of those who backed him quickly considered it the greatest mistake of their career.
Now came a key addition to Corbyn’s inner sanctum: Seumas Milne, his 57-year-old intellectual consigliere, an alumnus of Winchester and Oxford, and the son of Alasdair Milne, ex-director general of the BBC.
Known as a ‘Tankie’ when he joined the Guardian as a journalist because he supported the Soviet suppression of the uprisings in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968, Milne praised Stalin for offering ‘socialist political alternatives’.
There were lessons to be learned, he wrote, from the Soviet success: ‘For all its brutalities and failures… communism in the USSR, Eastern Europe and elsewhere delivered rapid industrialisation, mass education and job security and huge advances in social and gender equality. It encompassed genuine idealism and commitment.’
Milne’s political convictions and intellectual eloquence were to prove vital in helping Corbyn get elected Labour leader in September 2015 in a stunning victory that even dwarfed the mandate for Blair in 1994.
‘You’re too nice to be leader,’ Ken Livingstone told the most unexpected winner in his party’s history.
‘No one’s scared of you.’
‘John McDonnell will do all the scary stuff,’ Corbyn replied.
Just like in the 1970s, Corbyn’s winning power was quickly followed by chaos.
While the new leader wrestled with Shadow Cabinet appointments, office phones rang unanswered, messages remained unacknowledged and arrangements for meetings disappeared because there was no diary. The few scheduled meetings that did take place were abandoned after Corbyn failed to appear, often because he was averse to making decisions. ‘The atmosphere was fraught, tense and unhappy,’ reported adviser Harry Fletcher, ‘because the staff were terrified of having power.’
In the weeks after Corbyn’s election, most outsiders were still unaware that Trotskyite groups were disbanding so their members could qualify to join Labour in targeted constituencies. Many came from Momentum. Their attempt to rejoin was supported by Unite general secretary Len McCluskey, who saw the move as helping to purge the party of moderates – still unfinished business.
Leaving his office (decorated with a large portrait of Lenin), McCluskey set off to tell a meeting: ‘We may lose some people along the way. All I can say to that is, “Good riddance.” I’ve got a little list here in my inside pocket with names of people I’d like to see go.’
Although he never read Trotsky, he adopted his ideas to foment what Trotsky had called ‘a permanent state of unrest’ as a prelude to eventual victory (pictured: Corbyn aged 18 in 1967)
He was voicing the private thoughts of Corbyn, McDonnell and Milne. In public, all four talked about a kinder, gentler politics, at odds with the campaign of hatred, unprecedented in British politics, which then followed.
The conspirators were helped by the list of party members’ names, email addresses and telephone numbers that had been handed to Momentum founder Jon Lansman during the leadership election.
It was now used ruthlessly to flush out their foes. The first traces emerged in mid-October 2015: Hilary Benn was voted off Labour’s National Executive Committee and replaced by a loyalist.
Vegetarian... until invited to eat meat with Castro 
Pictured: Fidel Castro enjoys a steak dinner
Corbyn had been a vegetarian ever since he witnessed the treatment of farm animals in Shropshire as a boy. 
But then came a visit to Cuba with his wife Claudia as official guests. 
The highlight was dinner with Castro, pictured right. 
In his welcoming speech, Castro hailed Corbyn as a trusted friend against American imperialism. 
The main course was meat. 
To Claudia’s bemusement, rather than mentioning the fact that he was a vegetarian, her husband swallowed the beef with his principles. 
Next, Corbyn supporters challenged moderate Labour councillors in Portsmouth, Lambeth and Brighton. Naturally, Corbyn denied any responsibility. ‘I want to make it crystal clear,’ he told questioners, ‘I do not support changes to make it easier to deselect MPs.’
Milne introduced ideological discipline to Corbyn’s office. He persuaded him to make Katy Clark, a hard-Left bruiser, his political secretary. To assist her, Corbyn appointed the Trotskyist Andrew Fisher, who was advised to delete blogs describing his enthusiasm for violence.
Clark’s arrival aggravated the office chaos. Meetings arranged to start at 9am were delayed because no one arrived until 11, and some staff did not come to work at all. ‘They were lazy and p***ed on £100,000 a year,’ said a member of Corbyn’s team. If, by chance, sufficient numbers had arrived by midday, the next hurdle was to find Corbyn.
But even once he was located, aides quickly discovered their leader lacked the mental agility to chair a meeting without a clear brief of what he was to say. Milne was well aware he was serving an indecisive man prone to change his opinion depending on whoever he had last spoken to.
Corbyn’s malleability played to his own strengths, but also required careful handling. Too many outside the room judged Corbyn ‘thick’. At meetings, Milne sat expressionless when Corbyn asked the room nervously: ‘What’s wrong?’ In response, there was silence.
Meanwhile, the relentless campaign against his enemies was directed from the Labour leader’s office. Milne and others ‘anonymously’ briefed social media websites such as The Canary and Squawk Box to target anyone who stood up to them.
The vitriol was given rocket fuel by Momentum, by then employing permanent staff and strengthened by Len McCluskey’s union money.
Without a leader or an ideology, many MPs were cowed by Labour’s ‘shock troops’, led by Lansman, a battle-hardened party activist. Based in his office overlooking Euston station, Lansman claimed to control 90,000 supporters spread through a hundred groups across the country.
He wants unrestricted immigration... anyone who disagrees is racist 
Show of support: Corbyn celebrates with Diane Abbott and Bernie Grant, dressed in their parents’ national costume, as they mark their first day in Parliament in 1987
Dressed in a dirty jacket and creased trousers, Jeremy Corbyn arrived in Westminster as a new MP in the summer of 1983.
He immediately told friends that Parliament was ‘a waste of time’ with no relevance to his Islington constituents, especially the immigrant communities.
To meet them, he set up offices in the Red Rose Centre in Holloway where his door was always open to a tide of human misery: Cypriots, Jamaicans, Indians, Pakistanis, South Africans, South Americans, Somalis, West Saharans and Kurds all sought his help.
The procession of petitioners reinforced his conviction that Britain should allow unrestricted immigration – and offer the world’s destitute an open invitation to share our wealth. In his opinion, all immigrant communities were victims of white imperialists, and the British state owed them a financial obligation. Anyone who disagreed was racist.
Four years later Corbyn was back in Westminster for another first day of the new Parliament.
To celebrate a new era, Britain’s first three black MPs – all Labour – marched into the Commons chamber together.
Paul Boateng, Diane Abbott and Bernie Grant, together with the Asian Keith Vaz, each dressed in their parents’ national costumes, created an unprecedented spectacle as they walked towards the Speaker to take the oath.
Acting as part-supplicant and part-valet, Corbyn walked immediately behind, pleased to have a place as the honorary white man for the black caucus.
‘Look at Jeremy,’ said Brian Wilson, a new Scottish MP, to George Galloway, who had also been newly elected. ‘He would black up if he could.’
He spoke about ‘permanent mobilisation’ to defend Corbyn, not least action by Momentum’s members to trigger ‘mandatory deselection’ of untrusted MPs.
To root them out, in early 2016 a ‘loyalty list’ was drafted to classify MPs into five categories, from ‘core group’ to ‘hostile’. It listed only 17 unquestioned loyalists, including McDonnell and Abbott. Every Jewish MP was ‘hostile’ or ‘negative’, including Ed Miliband. Chuka Umunna, another ‘hostile’, was described by a Momentum activist as not ‘politically black’.
While authorising these classifications from his own office, Corbyn the consummate hypocrite publicly ordered his MPs to cease their personal abuse, public sniping and anonymous briefings.
When, over the summer of 2016 Corbyn faced a challenge to his leadership, Momentum activists went to war against the 172 rebel MPs on Twitter, issuing stark threats of deselection, violence and even murder. Fearing for their safety, some MPs hesitated to leave their offices.
Meanwhile, the purge of the moderates intensified.
Hundreds of Momentum members stormed into the annual meeting of Brighton and Hove’s Labour Party in an attempt to deselect MP Peter Kyle. Momentum directed similar tactics against Thangam Debbonaire, the MP for Bristol West, while she was being treated for breast cancer.
Other women MPs accused John McDonnell of urging supporters at rallies to demonstrate outside their constituency offices. A brick was thrown through a window of Angela Eagle’s office.
She directly accused Corbyn of allowing a ‘culture of bullying’ to develop. ‘It’s being done in your name,’ another of the victims told Corbyn. He replied with the old lie: ‘I don’t allow bullying.’
High on the list of targets was Ben Bradshaw, the MP for Exeter, who denounced Corbyn as a ‘destructive combination of incompetence, deceit and menace’.
John Woodcock, another victim, reviled Corbyn and McDonnell for having ‘set themselves up as the high priests of honest and straight-talking politics. Yet as soon as they are challenged, their operation squirms, spins and distorts like the very worst of anything that came before’.
But, once again, the bullyboy tactics worked.
In the new leadership contest, Corbyn won 61.8 per cent of the votes, even better than a year earlier. Election success against Theresa May in June 2017 unleashed yet more bloodletting.
‘No jobs for traitors,’ declared McDonnell on seeing his party’s rising black star Chuka Umunna interviewed on TV. Umunna, McDonnell seethed, was not one of ‘our people’.
In a chillingly Stalinist twist, Momentum turned against 50 Labour MPs accused of failing to praise Corbyn during their election campaigns.
Arsenal fan... who finds game ‘crude and awful’ 
Fairweather fan: Corbyn with ex-Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger
Over the years Corbyn has made great play about his alleged passion for his local football club, Arsenal. 
But, according to his old friend and constituency agent Keith Veness, he regarded the game as ‘crude and awful’, and much preferred not to go. 
So Veness took Corbyn’s sons to matches, while their father went to political meetings. 
‘Jeremy wasn’t interested in football,’ recalled Veness. 
‘Except, that was, on Cup Final day’ – when, no doubt, his attendance was sure to generate positive man- of-the-people media coverage. 
The pressure to pledge allegiance to their leader was unpleasant and intense.
Although she was on maternity leave, Liverpool MP Luciana Berger was told by a Unite official who had recently been elected on to her constituency’s executive committee to ‘get on board quite quickly now’, and apologise to Corbyn. She duly succumbed.
The intimidation of Berger was not unique. Many female Labour MPs, particularly Jews, complained of renewed abuse by the Left.
As in 1970s Haringey, Corbyn did nothing to protect them. He inspired the attacks, then stood back. Now was the moment, he agreed with Lansman, to revive the deselections interrupted by the 2017 election.
Momentum members in local branches were empowered to remove Blairite MPs. In Hampstead, Enfield, Lewisham, Hastings, Mansfield, Stoke and Brighton, moderate Labour MPs were under siege.
Then came a twist to bring the story of Corbyn’s toxic brand of politics full circle.
In his old stomping group of Haringey, members of Momentum intimidated the moderate councillors to succumb to what they termed a ‘democracy review’.
Claire Kober, the borough’s popular Labour leader, resigned after ten years because the activists’ anti-Semitism and misogyny, she said, ‘got too much’.
Richard Horton, the chairman of Haringey’s Stroud Green branch, complained of aggressive Marxists ‘destroying my mental health and damaging my family life’ and he too departed.
How proud the young Jeremy Corbyn would have been.
 
'She was shocked when we entered': Jeremy Corbyn drove two friends to his flat because he WANTED them to see new girlfriend Diane Abbott naked in his bed, biography reveals 
Shortly after his first wife Jane Chapman walked out, Corbyn encouraged his friend Keith Veness and Steve Hull, another political ally, to join him posting leaflets around a council estate.
At about 11.30am he announced ‘We need to collect more leaflets’, and drove them back to his flat. The three walked in to discover a naked woman on the bed. Diane Abbott, Corbyn proudly announced, was his new girlfriend. ‘He wanted us to see her in his bed,’ recalled Veness. ‘She was shocked when we entered.’
Abbott, who quickly wrapped herself in a duvet, was the antithesis of a white, middle-class English woman. Born to Jamaican immigrants in 1953, she went to a grammar school in London , then to Cambridge. 
Disappointed lover: Jeremy Corbyn and Diane Abbott began their relationship in the 1970s
As the first female black student from a state school at Newnham College, she enjoyed a hectic social life and became firmly hard Left, passionately committed to the class struggle.
After graduating, she began working as a race relations officer at the National Council for Civil Liberties. Belying the human rights group’s name, her colleagues rummaged through her desk and found her private diary. One entry recorded her sexual fantasy of being manhandled by her lover Corbyn – ‘a bearded Fenian and NUPE national organiser’.
There were also descriptions of a motorbike holiday with him around France and a passionate romp in a Cotswolds field, which she described as her ‘finest half-hour’.
Diane Abbott became passionately committed to the class struggle
Corbyn’s passion for Abbott ended any hope Jane Chapman might have had that their relationship could be restored. He had found a political soul mate who regarded Britain as the country that ‘invented racism’, and echoed his praise for the IRA. Feisty and, in her early years, good-looking, Abbott even persuaded Corbyn to change his habits to suit her, at least for a while: he enjoyed social evenings with her and friends at restaurants and dinner parties.
Abbott secured a job as a TV producer but fretted that Corbyn and Chapman were still meeting at Haringey Council.
Chapman recalled a ‘nervous, tense and slightly hostile’ Abbott knocking on her door one evening, and making her demands clear. ‘Get the hell out of here,’ said Abbott. ‘You’re in the media and everywhere and I want you out of town.’
‘I can’t,’ replied Chapman, ‘I’ve been elected to office.’
Later, Chapman explained: ‘She wanted a clear run. I was in the media a lot then because of my political work and she wished I wasn’t.’
Abbott also grew fed-up with Corbyn’s way of life; just as he had ignored Chapman, he began ignoring her.
At 27, she wanted marriage and eventually children. Corbyn wanted neither.
One morning, Bernie Grant, the firebrand Tottenham MP, called Keith Veness. ‘Diane’s had enough of Jeremy. She’s moving out. Come and give us a hand.’
Labour activist Keith Veness arrived at Corbyn's flat to find its rooms strewn with papers and clothing
Diane Abbott and Jeremy Corbyn at day three of the Labour Party Conference in Liverpool on September 25
Veness arrived in a large van at Corbyn’s flat, finding its rooms strewn with papers and clothing.
‘It’s hard to have a relationship with someone who doesn’t come home for two weeks,’ said Abbott defensively.
She, Grant and Veness set about packing away her things.
Suddenly the door opened, and in walked Corbyn. ‘Hello, mate,’ he said to Grant. Then he saw Veness carrying out Abbott’s possessions. After hearing why the two men were there, he walked away without comment; he was off to a meeting, he said.
Appalled by the way Abbott had been treated, Grant chased after Corbyn.
‘Get real,’ he said, knowing full well that Corbyn remained insult-proof.
 
His idea of fun? Cold Tesco baked beans or sitting on the floor singing IRA songs: Book lifts the lid on life for Corbyn's first wife that turned into a succession of political demos 
1974 was the tumultuous year Britain endured two General Elections. It was also the year that, during endless hours of leafleting and canvassing, Corbyn met the woman who’d become his first wife. 
Jane Chapman was 23, an attractive graduate studying for a doctorate at the London School of Economics. ‘Jeremy professed love early on,’ she recalled, ‘and said that I was “the best of the best”, so I thought this must be the thing.’
Consumed by what she described as a ‘whirlwind’ three-month romance – ‘he constantly urged us to marry’ – she agreed because ‘he was friendly and lively and seemed bright and not bad-looking’.
'Jane was shocked that Corbyn didn’t read a single book in four years of marriage' (pictured: Jane Chapman)
Naturally, both were hard-Left activists – she says ‘Jeremy was a Trotskyist, no doubt about it’ – and their respective local Labour branches selected each to stand in the council elections for the North London borough of Haringey. Both were elected and two days later, on May 4, 1974, they were married at the town hall.
Neither set of parents was impressed by their child’s choice. Chapman’s mother, a lifetime Tory, was not pleased that her ambitious daughter was marrying a poorly off, uneducated trade union official.
Corbyn’s mother Naomi disliked her new ‘alpha female’ daughter-in-law. It was wrong, she thought, to have such an obvious competitive element in a marriage.
Tensions were aggravated when Corbyn’s brother Piers arrived at the wedding looking even more scruffy than normal. Embarrassed, Naomi swept him off to buy a shirt and a suit, but they did not return until after the ceremony.
Following a brief honeymoon in Ireland, the newlyweds returned to a tiny ground-floor studio room in Haringey, moving a year later to a bigger ground-floor flat nearby. There, several chickens, a cat christened Harold Wilson and a dog named Mango ran around the garden.
Married life became a succession of political meetings and demos. Some mornings they would head for a picket line at 5.30am to support strikers.
Among the biggest surprises for Chapman was the total absence of books in her husband’s life.
Jane Chapman addressing a Labour Party event in 1975 during her marriage to Jeremy Corbyn
Throughout the four years of their marriage, he never read a single one. He did not think deeply about ideology or political philosophy. Her initial judgment that he was ‘bright’ was mistaken.
His other handicap, Corbyn was acutely aware, was his lack of a working-class pedigree – especially when his childhood family home had been Yew Tree Manor, a five-bedroom 17th Century farmhouse in Shropshire.
From there his parents – scruffy, unconventional but undeniably middle-class – moved to a new home in Wiltshire, chosen to enable them to pursue their burgeoning interest in archaeology.
During Corbyn and Chapman’s visits for Sunday lunch, politics were politely discussed, but Corbyn’s parents never mentioned that they had been present at the Battle of Cable Street, or that his father David had ever considered going to fight in the Spanish Civil War.
Their son’s introduction of those key events into the biographies of his parents would come much later. As Jane Chapman discovered, her husband’s understanding of their domestic finances was no better than his dismal grasp of economics. In line with his lifelong disapproval of aspiration and success, he never talked about buying a bigger home or car or increasing his income. When he returned home at night, he’d happily open a can of beans, swallow them cold and declare himself satisfied.
Occasionally, he returned late from a meeting of the Hornsey Labour Party with friends to sing IRA songs while they all got drunk on beer.
He would sit on the floor in his greasy, unwashed army surplus store jacket, oblivious to his wife’s irritation.
They rarely went out together. Dinner invitations were refused. Chapman spent lonely evenings in their small flat with Mango the dog and Harold Wilson the cat as her only companions, while Corbyn met political cronies.
Among them was fellow Haringey councillor Bernie Grant, a bombastic Black Power Marxist from Guyana.
‘It’s racism to control immigration’, Grant frequently declared – an opinion that Corbyn quickly adopted.
In the summer of 1976, Corbyn and Chapman set off on his 250cc Czech motorbike for a camping holiday across Europe.
‘Jeremy always chose to go on holiday in August,’ explained Chapman, ‘because there were no political meetings.’ She feared the holiday would be as uncomfortable as the previous year in France, Spain and Portugal.
The ordeal was not just riding pillion on Corbyn’s bumpy bike, but his passion for abstinence.
While Chapman wanted to sleep in a proper bed and eat in interesting restaurants, Corbyn insisted on a small tent and cooking tins of beans on a single ring Calor gas stove. The nearest Chapman got to comfort was after a rainstorm flooded their tent outside Prague.
Following a brief honeymoon in Ireland, the newlyweds returned to a tiny ground-floor studio room in Haringey, moving a year later to a bigger ground-floor flat nearby
Begrudgingly, Corbyn agreed to spend the night under cover – not in a hotel, but in a student hostel. He became furious when his motorbike broke down in Czechoslovakia, assuming that because it had been manufactured there it would be easy to have it repaired. Instead, he was introduced to the realities of a communist economy.
The bike had been made exclusively for export, and no Czech garage mechanic knew how to fix it. For two days he fumed until it was finally repaired.
During their journey, Chapman discovered that her husband was not interested in equality within marriage, or in sharing any domestic chores. ‘He never spoke about sex, music, fashion or books. He put class first.’
Equally distressing was his indifference to Europe’s most beautiful cities. In Vienna, he refused to enter the palace of Schönbrunn, the Kaiser’s summer retreat, because it was ‘royal’. ‘You go in,’ he told her, ‘I’ll stay outside.’
European culture offended him. He stood in Vienna’s Ringstrasse – said by many to be the most beautiful boulevard in the world – and pronounced it ‘capitalist’. He walked past all the museums and art galleries, and found no pleasure in medieval towns.
In villages, he was only interested to watch the peasants going about their lives. In Prague, soaking wet from torrential rain, he did not lament a missed visit to Hradcany castle, and turned down a walk through the old town. Nor did he comment on the dilapidation of the city’s old buildings, all neglected by its communist overlords. ‘Preservation of architecture and heritage,’ recalled Chapman, ‘didn’t appear to be on his agenda.’
For similar reasons he had always refused to accompany her to Paris, where she did occasional research, or to Los Angeles to visit her aunt. He spoke only about elections, campaigns and demos, although his knowledge even of these was incomplete.
By contrast, he expressed a deep interest in Britain’s manhole covers, especially their dates of manufacture: ‘My mother always said there’s history in drain covers.’
Most travellers who crossed into Czechoslovakia from Austria during the Cold War were shocked by the experience.
Running just behind the customs buildings were two rows of electrified barbed wire and between them a minefield. Looking out over the eerie silence were armed soldiers in guard towers, with orders to shoot on sight anyone approaching from the Czech side.
Those caught within five miles of the border without police permission could expect imprisonment. Any Western visitor riding a motorbike through those fortifications would be left in no doubt that Eastern Europe was a prison. Czechs were badly dressed, had limited food, and lived in decaying buildings.
Czechoslovakia, a rich democracy before 1939, was a police state. But Corbyn uttered not a single word of criticism, and expressed no sympathy for the country’s 1968 attempt at liberation from the Soviet Union.
He said nothing about the thousands of skilled and scholarly Czechs forced to take menial employment as street cleaners or worse, as punishment for opposing the Soviet occupation.
‘He was a Tankie,’ said his old friend and constituency agent Keith Veness, meaning that Corbyn had supported the Soviet suppression of the Hungarian revolt in 1956 and the Prague uprising 12 years later.
When in conversation Veness mentioned Stalin’s cruelties, ‘Jeremy walked away. He couldn’t do political arguments.
‘He was a communist fellow-traveller. The bastard never apologised for the Moscow trials.’
The Corbyns returned to London with Jeremy unaware that their marriage was cracking up.
‘Jeremy never thought there was anything wrong,’ recalled Chapman. ‘He assumed that, because our politics were compatible, that amounted to a proper relationship.’
‘She tried to make it work,’ said Keith Veness, ‘but he was uninterested. He never came home, and the relationship just slowly broke up.’
Chapman’s requests for more than just a political life – cinemas, restaurants, clubs, children – were ignored. ‘He didn’t acknowledge my emotional side,’ said Chapman. ‘He doesn’t recognise a woman’s feelings.’
At Christmas she prepared a special five-course vegetarian lunch for Corbyn and his brother Piers. ‘They stuffed it down their gullets and never said thanks,’ she recalled. Her husband, she knew, would have been happy with a can of beans: ‘Usually Tesco, not Heinz, but he wouldn’t know the difference.’
Just before Christmas 1979, Chapman walked out of the family home. According to Keith Veness, she ‘just gave up on him’. As she packed her belongings, Corbyn told his wife: ‘You should read Simone de Beauvoir.’
Clearly, ever the non-reader, he had heard about de Beauvoir from someone, and had failed to understand the author’s philosophy. Women, de Beauvoir complained, were regarded as ‘the second sex’, and defined by their relationship to men. To rescue themselves, they should elevate themselves by exercising the same choice as men – precisely what Chapman had decided to do.
Corbyn was exhibiting all the contradictions of an unresolved personality, disconnected from the real world.
His self-portrayal as a universal ‘do-gooder’ was at odds with his inability to care for his wife, or indeed any female companion. He was quite incapable of understanding why his marriage had collapsed.
‘He thought I left him on a feminist kick,’ recalled Chapman, ‘but it was because I wanted some fun. His lack of emotional awareness didn’t change. My emotional life as part of a relationship was forgotten.’
Finally, she realised that his judgment at the beginning of their relationship that she was ‘the best of the best’ was because ‘I was the only woman who would put up with his political obsessions’.
 
Married to a joyless fanatic: How Jeremy Corbyn neglected the mother of his three sons and cost them the family home because of his chaotic finances, new book claims
The father-to-be was distracted – and anxious. His wife Claudia was due to give birth to their first child at the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, and Jeremy Corbyn headed for the telephone outside the delivery room.
If his old friend and constituency agent Keith Veness was surprised to get the call, he was even more startled by what Corbyn – running for re-election as an MP in the 1987 General Election – had to say.
‘I’m really worried,’ the lifelong Marxist many believe will be Britain’s next Prime Minister complained as his new wife lay in a hospital bed preparing to bring their baby son into the world. ‘We haven’t put out that leaflet about Northern Ireland .’
‘Haven’t you got something more serious to worry about?’ asked Veness.
‘What’s that?’
‘You’re about to be a father. I’ve never heard of anyone who lost an election because they didn’t get a leaflet out.’
But then Jeremy Corbyn has never done family life like everyone else.
When Claudia tried to hire a cleaner, Corbyn’s friends asked if his wife had ‘bourgeois tendencies’
He met Claudia Bracchitta, the fiercely intelligent and good-looking daughter of Chilean exiles, the previous year at a protest meeting against her homeland’s military dictatorship, addressed by Ken Livingstone.
‘She wanted to get off with me,’ Livingstone later ungallantly recalled, ‘but I had to go off to meet Kate, my partner, so she went for Jeremy.’
Claudia was already married, but by the following year she was pregnant with Corbyn’s child and rushed through a divorce to marry her new admirer.
Neither of Corbyn’s parents was present at the wedding: his father had died the previous year and his mother was not invited.
In fact, he didn’t tell even his close friends about his marriage.
Within little more than a decade the relationship was dead, killed not by, as they told the world, principled political differences about whether to send their son to a grammar school – but by Corbyn’s financial incompetence, his neglect of his family, his arid lifestyle and his apparent misogyny.
‘I’ve got all these debts,’ Corbyn told his long-time friend Reg Race as they sat in the spartan living room of the politician’s semi-detached house in North London in late 1996. ‘Can you work out why?’
Political upbringing: Corbyn’s sons Sebastian, Benjamin and Tommy applaud their father at last year’s Labour Conference
‘I don’t need to be a genius to tell him what’s wrong,’ Race thought. ‘He’s in danger of bankruptcy.’ Across the room sat his host and Claudia, positioned unnaturally far apart. Race, a former hard-Left MP who’d transformed himself into a successful financial consultant, had been summoned by Claudia as a mutual friend to solve their differences.
The papers in front of him showed that the Corbyns owed their bank £30,000, the equivalent of twice that figure today. Several personal loans had been guaranteed by Corbyn’s income as an MP – and he was also burdened by high mortgage repayments.
As a last resort, the bank could threaten to recover its money by seizing his home. ‘You’ve run out of loans,’ said Race. Unchecked, within five years the debts would be £100,000. Corbyn’s annual salary was £43,000. Claudia interrupted. This was entirely the result of her husband’s folly, she said. She and their three young sons – Sebastian, Benjamin and Thomas – had little money even to buy food and clothes. ‘We can’t afford a decent life.’
The principal cause of the debts was the Red Rose Community Centre in Holloway – a bar and dance area on the ground floor of a building that fulfilled his commitment to open his party office in his North London constituency. Corbyn was paying its rent and some staff salaries out of his own pocket. Simultaneously, he owed a large sum to the Inland Revenue for his employees’ unpaid National Insurance and pension contributions.
The financial chaos was matched by his management style. His employees complained about being both undervalued and underpaid.
Among the casualties was Liz Phillipson, his battle-scarred assistant, who had resigned rather than continue to tolerate Corbyn’s fecklessness. ‘You haven’t got enough money for what you’re doing,’ Race said bluntly. ‘You should close your office and move to the Commons.
‘I won’t,’ replied Corbyn.
‘Oh, come on, Jeremy, you know he’s right,’ Claudia said, her voice rising. Corbyn mumbled, then fell silent. His body language showed he felt no inclination to follow Race’s advice. Claudia was becoming noticeably agitated. ‘It was clear a breakdown was coming,’ thought Race.
He was not surprised by the tension. Throughout their marriage, Corbyn’s lack of interest in material things had meant that he ignored her need for comfort.
Debt-ridden: Jeremy Corbyn in the 1980s
At one stage she had planned for the family to move from Islington to leafy Kingston upon Thames, but was quickly disabused of the idea. ‘He has to live in his constituency,’ a political aide told her.
She got the same short shrift from her husband when she tried to hire a cleaner – a move that prompted one of Corbyn’s friends to question whether his wife had ‘bourgeois tendencies’.
To Corbyn, Claudia’s list of complaints was familiar. Over the years, a succession of women had made the same observations: he never changed his ways, and he rarely thought about them.
He wore the same shabby clothes, ate the same bland food and stuck to the same dogmatic political convictions he first developed as a teenager.
Admirers hailed his inflexibility as proof of his integrity. Detractors blamed his limited intelligence and lack of education for his failure to appreciate others.
Long before the onset of their financial problems, life with Corbyn had proved difficult for Claudia. Labour MP Tony Banks witnessed just how difficult as one day he walked into Westminster’s central lobby and spotted her standing by the wall, tearfully holding her children.
Jeremy, Claudia explained, had promised to meet her two hours earlier. He had not turned up. Banks took the four Corbyns to the Commons family room and went off in search. Eventually he found Corbyn in a committee room. ‘You’d better come out and look after your children,’ he suggested. Corbyn did not seem fazed for a moment. Banks was not surprised. ‘When pushed to have a day off,’ he recalled, ‘Jeremy’s idea was to take his partner to Highgate Cemetery and study the grave of Karl Marx.’
His old friend Reg Race had experienced something similar when he had invited the Corbyn family for a week’s holiday at his country home in Derbyshire.
On the day, Claudia arrived with the children.
‘Where’s Jeremy?’ asked Mandy, Reg’s wife. ‘I don’t know,’ replied Claudia with sadness. ‘He just told me, “I’ve got to go to a meeting”, and I haven’t seen him since.’
Over the following 36 hours, Claudia called several numbers searching for her husband. Two days later he turned up, explaining his absence as a necessary sacrifice for ‘the movement’.
By the time Race was called in to help resolve Corbyn’s financial crisis, the marriage was all but over.
Corbyn had regularly picked wood from neighbourhood skips, and also collected railway junk as he criss-crossed the country on trains
That afternoon Race told his friend that he had little choice but to sell the family home.
Claudia agreed. Reluctantly, so did Corbyn – and thereafter broke off his relations with Race. The messenger was to blame, a failure to take personal responsibility that left Race to conclude of the man he’d worked closely with over three decades: ‘He’s not fit to be leader of the Labour Party, and not fit to be Britain’s Prime Minister.’
In early 1999, the Corbyns’ home was sold for £365,000 (£730,000 today), and they downsized to a house in Mercers Road, a shabby street off Holloway Road.
On the day of the move, Corbyn was told by Claudia to empty the fridge. He forgot. He also forgot to clear the garage. Late in the afternoon, while their former home’s new owner fumed on the pavement, the garage door was opened to reveal rubbish crammed to the ceiling.
Corbyn had regularly picked wood from neighbourhood skips, and also collected railway junk as he criss-crossed the country on trains. Boxes of safety lamps, metal signs, track signals and other paraphernalia had been stuffed in any old how. Late in the day, everything was finally shuttled across to the basement of Mercers Road, creating a new world of clutter.
The move brought one advantage. The building had been converted into bedsits, making the estrangement between Claudia and Corbyn easier.
She and their three sons took the top floors, where she lived with a young South American dubbed ‘the toy boy’, while Corbyn, in the basement, had relationships with a series of younger women.
The Labour leader has always done his best to conceal his chaotic personal life from the media – which he loathes. His break-up with Claudia was no different, shrouded as it was with obfuscation and lies.
Late in 1999, while Corbyn was at a peace conference in The Hague, a journalist contacted his wife and asked whether the two had separated. She said their 12-year marriage had ended in 1997. She said she had wanted their 11-year-old son Ben to go to Queen Elizabeth’s grammar school in Barnet, but that Corbyn had stipulated that he should go instead to Holloway School, a failing local comprehensive.
From The Hague, Corbyn confirmed Claudia’s account. Defending his ideological purity against selective schools, he implied, was more important than his son’s education – or his marriage.
In a series of interviews, Claudia reinforced the same message. ‘My children’s education is my absolute priority, and this situation left me with no alternative but to accept a place at Queen Elizabeth Boys’ School. I had to make the decision as a mother and a parent… It isn’t a story about making a choice, but about having no choice.’
To the public, Corbyn appeared to have acquiesced in his wife’s wishes, but, like so many communists, he had put his political principles first, and ended the marriage: he could not live with a woman who did not accept his beliefs.
The only dent to that image of ideological purity was Claudia’s revelation that Corbyn had agreed for another of their sons to spend two years at the local Montessori nursery, at £600 per term.
If that had been the last word on the subject, the notion that the marriage had broken up over Corbyn’s principles might have been plausible. But Claudia, possibly with Corbyn’s encouragement, went further. ‘He is first the politician and second the parent,’ she said. ‘It’s very difficult when your ideals get in the way of family life… It has been a horrendous decision.’
Sixteen years later, the whole tale was expanded. Rosa Prince, Corbyn’s semi-authorised biographer, described, with Claudia’s help, a tormented family: ‘Corbyn and Bracchitta went round and round in circles for months.
‘She would not send Ben to Holloway School and Corbyn could not bear for him to go to Queen Elizabeth’s… In choosing Queen Elizabeth’s, Bracchitta was aware that she was ending her marriage.’
Is this version correct? Friends say the marriage ended because of Corbyn’s behaviour – his financial fecklessness, his thoughtless absences and his selfish refusal to do anything to make his wife’s life more pleasant.
‘He told me that the marriage had ended long before the school bit,’ Ken Livingstone recalled. ‘We had a chat at the time and he said his marriage had fallen apart over other things, not the school.’
 
Principled? Corbyn secretly believed in Brexit... but 'campaigned' for Remain, bombshell book reveals
It will appal many of his young supporters but Corbyn welcomed David Cameron ’s Referendum announcement – because his Euroscepticism is long-standing and deep-rooted
Europe, he told President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela in 2014, had ‘suffered appallingly’ because the EU was a capitalists’ club and a barrier to his life’s work to ‘build socialism’.
The EU, he believed, existed for greedy bankers and multinationals to exploit the working class.
If Britain voted to leave, and freed itself from Brussels’ control, a socialist government could prevent British investment abroad and control markets, tariffs and profits – all contrary to EU laws.
Criticised: Corbyn angered Remainers with his appearance on the comedy show The Last Leg
Both Corbyn and McDonnell wanted to campaign for Britain to leave, but were challenged by Hilary Benn and others in the Shadow Cabinet. Reluctantly, Corbyn agreed to campaign for Remain. The Remainers’ chances of success, Corbyn knew, depended on Labour voters. Cameron’s fate was equally bound up in the outcome. If Britain voted Leave, Corbyn calculated, the PM would be humiliated and the Tories weakened. Those were good reasons not to appear on any platform alongside him. To Alan Johnson, appointed to lead Labour’s Remain campaign, Corbyn’s reluctance to preach the advantages of the EU was ‘risible’.
Within weeks of Johnson starting his work, tensions intensified. According to him, Corbyn’s closest associates were undermining his efforts.
Corbyn ignored him at meetings and found regular excuses not to appear on the Remainers’ platform while he continued to speak in favour of the IRA and Hamas.
‘You’re deliberately sending Jeremy to speak in areas where he’s not needed,’ a journalist told Seumas Milne, Corbyn’s spin doctor. ‘Don’t be so stupid,’ said Milne, laughing. He would not dream of ‘scuppering the vote’.
Corbyn knew the contrary. For Labour supporters tempted to vote Leave, controlling immigration was critical, but to him those opposed to open borders were racist. To keep ideologically pure, he ordered party officials to remove every reference to immigration from Labour’s campaign. As he understood perfectly well, his stance was deeply damaging to Remain. Hilary Benn intervened. Entering Corbyn’s office, he said: ‘You need to think in the language of the national interest.’
Milne laughed. ‘What’s funny about the national interest?’ asked Imran Ahmed, Benn’s assistant.
The EU, he believed, existed for greedy bankers and multinationals to exploit the working class
Milne’s dismissive shrug sparked an outburst from Benn directed at Corbyn. Trashing Cameron, he said, was short-sighted. The Referendum could be lost. Milne started to interrupt. ‘Shut up!’ Benn shouted. ‘This is for elected people to discuss!’
‘We won’t speak about immigration or the national interest,’ Corbyn told Benn. Soon after, he removed from an important leaflet a personal endorsement written by a party official. The words he deleted ran: ‘I am clear, just like my Shadow Cabinet, the trade union movement and our members, that it is in the interests of the people of this country to remain in the EU.’
His not-so-subtle sabotage of his own campaign went on. On Milne’s advice, Corbyn chose to star at the British Kebab Awards rather than attend a major Remain rally. Johnson was even more indignant about his leader’s appearance in a white fur coat and black tie on The Last Leg, a Channel 4 comedy show.
Not only did Corbyn deliberately look unserious, but, to harm the campaign still further, he told the audience that he was only ‘7 or 7.5 out of 10’ in favour of Europe.
‘I’m not a huge fan of the EU,’ he said, smiling.
The result of the Referendum on June 23 shocked everyone. The puzzle on that momentous night was to locate Corbyn. He had disappeared – his staff assumed he had gone home to sleep, and had turned his telephone off. After getting up late the following day, Corbyn was seen laughing over breakfast with his team. Although Milne and McDonnell admitted to voting Leave, Corbyn would deny that he had done so.
After a telephone conversation, his old friend Keith Veness believes that he did vote Leave, not least because he sounded so delighted.
Before Corbyn arrived at his office that morning, he publicly demanded that the Government should immediately apply for Article 50, the process to terminate Britain’s membership of the EU. Back then he saw no reason to prepare for negotiations or for a transition period.
He simply wanted Britain out of the European Union without establishing any relationship with the customs union or the single market, and emphatically ruled out a second referendum. 
Advertisement
Jeremy Corbyn's 40 years of plots, lies, intimidation and chaos
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
More top stories
Femail Today
Chicago police chief EVISCERATES Jussie Smollett as he reveals the actor staged his 'attack' because he was not happy with his SALARY on Empire
'I'm redefining what it looks like for a queer person to be in a hetero relationship' Miley Cyrus discusses 'new age' marriage to Liam Hemsworth 
Kylie Jenner stands alone filming selfies in the kitchen mirror of her huge mansion after BFF Jordyn Woods' 'moves out' amid Tristan cheating scandal
Khloe Kardashian shares quotes on 'betrayal' and being 'broken' after reports Tristan Thompson 'hooked up' with family friend Jordyn Woods
Monkees bassist Peter Tork dies at age 77 after being diagnosed with rare tongue cancer 10 years ago Member of beloved band was married four times
Amazon's top beauty buys of month: From 'miracle' ache patches to 'magic in bottle' hair treatment, the products shoppers just love SPONSORED
Was Jordyn Woods secretly seeing Tristan Thompson for a MONTH before they were caught making out? Whispers that it wasn't a one-off fling
New York, new style! How Meghan embraced a VERY different fashion formula during her trip, swapping dresses and updos for jeans, bags and free-flowing hair
Meghan and pals made floral arrangements that were donated to charity at baby shower but royal did not open gifts, saying she wanted to wait to be with Harry  
Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank 'had affair with MSNBC host Stephanie Ruhle and sought her advice over that of his board while flying her around on jet' 
Kaley Cuoco reveals husband Karl Cook 'ruined the moment' after they took a romantic naked snap and he said they 'look like siblings' 
Advertisement
'The obscene cost of this trip is utter hypocrisy': Climate change crusaders Meghan and Harry face furious backlash over Duchess NYC trip
Lisa Rinna does a quick costume change sporting two sleek suits at GMA  ... after clarifying insensitive Lisa Vanderpump pill joke on social media
Jordyn Woods' new eyelash range is already on sale... after she 'betrayed' Kylie Jenner's big sister Khloe Kardashian Special offer on items
Teen Mom OG star Catelynn Lowell gives birth to third child and husband Tyler Baltierra boasts 'she's here and I'm in love' on Instagram
Wendy Williams announces she'll return to her show in March after her two month-long absence for 'medical reasons' Been battling issues
Jenna Dewan beams with joy as she jets into LA flashing torso in crop top... after becoming emotional watching Whitney documentary on airplane
Andrea Corr, 44, highlights her toned physique in nautical print bikini as she frolics on the beach for sun-soaked Barbados getaway
Gwyneth Paltrow wears neutral ensemble to grab coffee in Los Angeles... after admitting confusion in Khloe Kardashian cheating scandal
Gwen Stefani, 49, nails casual chic in camo print cargo pants as she cuddles her adorable pet pooch during low-key stroll in LA with son Apollo, 4
20th Century Fox is 'considering its options' after Jussie Smollett's arrest amid claims he staged hoax attack to get a raise
Advertisement
The Crown star Ryan Sampson shares sweet picture with his boyfriend as he hits back at 'homophobic banter' after fan mistook him for being straight  
Luke Bryan's 18-year-old adopted dog Poochie passes away just two weeks after being rescued  Country star and his family are mourning 
Prince Charles enjoys a spot of tea at the annual Cramner Awards at Lambeth Palace in London - and even poses for a picture on a fan's smartphone 
The Highwaymen FIRST LOOK: Trailer for Netflix's intense drama sees Woody Harrelson and Kevin Costner hunt down criminal duo Bonnie and Clyde
Irina Shayk looks chic in a beige coat as she indulges in some retail therapy during Milan Fashion Week The model, 33, looked as glamorous as ever 
Casino star Vinny Vella dies at age 72 after battle with liver cancer The star of numerous gangster films, he played Artie Piscano in Casino
Natalie Portman 'files for restraining order against man who claims they have a telepathic connection and showed up at her home'
'What about MAGA?' Trump defends his 'tens of millions' of fans and blasts Jussie Smollett for 'racist and dangerous' lies after police charge actor 
Back to reality! Amal Clooney is spotted with her 18-month-old twins after celebrating at her close friend Meghan's $430K baby shower
Hugh Jackman and Sir Patrick Stewart set Guinness World Records for longest Marvel careers after 17 YEARS as Wolverine and Professor X  
Advertisement
Comfy is going to cost you! As models Bella Hadid and Elsa Hosk step out in designer sweatshirts, FEMAIL rounds up stylish pullovers 
Kendall Jenner channels her inner Neo as she makes a futuristic style statement in Matrix inspired leather trench coat in Milan
Bikini-clad Top Chef star Padma Lakshmi , 48, makes a splash with daughter Krishna on her 9th birthday during their lavish vacation in the Dominican Republic
Human Ken Doll Rodrigo Alves cozies up to plastic surgeon ex as he dines in Milan... after shock revelation new chin implant has RUPTURED
Jordyn Woods 'moves out' of Kylie Jenner's home and heads to her mom's house after Tristan Thompson 'cheated on Khloe with  her'
Khloe Kardashian DELETES recent pictures of cheating Tristan Thompson from Instagram after he 'hooked up' with Kylie's pal Jordyn 
Gwyneth Paltrow asks 'what's going on' with Tristan Thompson and Khloe cheating scandal after admitting she's 'never heard of half of these people'
Ashley Benson heads to pamper session in blue skinny jeans and sharp black coat without rumored girlfriend Cara Delevingne
Polished perfection! Queen Letizia of Spain is chic in a grey checked dress as she joins King Felipe for an awards ceremony in Madrid
Emilia Clarke nails airport chic in a clingy gray rollneck and bright red coat as she jets out of London Actress, 32, appeared in high spirits 
Sarah Hyland sports plaid coat and high-waisted slacks in LA after returning from romantic vacation in Lake Tahoe with Wells Adams
Cindy Crawford celebrates her 53rd birthday with husband Rande Gerber and son Presley in LA while daughter Kaia storms the runway in Milan
'You're going to be very beautiful': Duchess of Cornwall admires a young carer's manicure as she joins an arts and crafts session at the charity
The Clooneys' VERY lavish baby shower gift! Meghan is revealed to have flown back from NYC with friend Amal, who paid for $164,000 flight on private jet 
Miranda Lambert's new husband 'is a country music fanatic who was dying to meet her for years... and already met her ex Blake Shelton' 
Advertisement
Roseanne Barr calls Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez a 'bug-eyed b***h' who has cost hundreds of people jobs in a rambling and vulgarity-laced rant
Khloe Kardashian fails to raise a smile as she makes her first public appearance at PrettyLittleThing event amid Tristan Thompson split drama
Meghan is whisked away by security detail after landing back in Britain following NYC baby shower with Serena Williams and Amal Clooney 
Kate missed Meghan's baby shower 'as she and William took the children on a secret skiing vacation'  Won't dampen royal rift speculation  
Paris Hilton looks disheveled as she smokes outside nightclub following boozy night out with pals Heiress hit the town
Model Demi Rose threatens to spill out of her racy navy minidress as she and pal Kaz Crossley coordinate in latex at Beats By Dre party in London
Beyoncé thanks Meghan for 'pushing the race relations dialogue forward' by enlisting a black pastor and gospel choir for her wedding in a VERY gushing post 
Sylvester Stallone, 72, and wife Jennifer Flavin, 50, appear close as they enjoy romantic date at Beverly Hills restaurant They've been wed for more than twenty years
Jenna Jameson poses in very revealing swimsuit as she 'cracks down' on her diet ahead of vacation She has lost a lot of weight on the Keto diet 
Kaia Gerber, Gigi and Bella Hadid put on bold displays during stunning Fendi MFW show... as the brand's late creative director Karl Lagerfeld is honored on catwalk 
Advertisement
No wonder she needed a private jet! Meghan's huge haul of baby shower gifts is loaded for transport to London following lavish $430k celebrations
Baby shower blues! Meghan's BFFs Abigail Spencer and Taryn Toomey are left stranded in New York after their flight to LA is delayed by 17 HOURS
Larsa Pippen turns heads at PrettyLittleThing... after hitting out at Jordyn Woods amid Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson split drama
Gisele Bundchen cuts a casual figure in shearling jacket and jeans as she arrives at dinner with husband Tom Brady in a $360,000 Rolls-Royce
Revealed: Britain's most popular movie locations, from the Scottish mountains in Braveheart to the estate where Keira Knightley shone as The Duchess
Courteney Cox 'was really scared' on damaged plane that was routed while flying to Mexico for Jennifer Aniston's birthday celebration
Showdown in RHONJ Reunion as Teresa Giudice threatens to attack Jackie Goldschneider while calling her 'stalker'
Eminem blasts Netflix for canceling Marvel's The Punisher as he tells the streaming platform in a brutal tweet that they're 'blowing it'
Tara Reid is glam in see-through skirt and turtleneck with padded shoulders for Global Green Pre-Oscar Party in LA Actress, 43, wowed
Megan Fox sports  leggings for coffee run in Los Angeles as she makes a rare appearance without husband Brian Austin Green
Advertisement
'Roma is just an expensive home movie' and 'it's about time for Spike Lee' - Academy member reveals thinking behind how Oscars ballot is filled in
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley slips her incredible figure into racy lingerie as she shares behind-the-scenes snaps from steamy photshoot
A baby shower gift? Meghan Markle is spotted wearing a 'mommy' necklace made by Tobey Maguire's ex wife Jennifer Meyer 
Kelly Osbourne, 34, sparks romance rumors with UK actor Lucien Laviscount, 26, following romantic dinner in LA  Pair were spotted holding hands
Rumer Willis stumps judges as Lion on The Masked Singer while eliminated with Joey Fatone as Rabbit Bruce and Demi's girl sure can sing
Meghan Markle's royal wedding makeup artist Daniel Martin shares sweet photo of cookies guests received at her baby shower, including a stork, rattle and bib
Beyonce and Jay Z bow to a portrait of Meghan Markle in a crown in honor of Black History Month as they wish their 'Melanated Mona' joy 
Janet Jackson, 52, cuts a casual figure as she steps out with son Eissa, 2, in London... with the toddler riding in a $500 toy Mercedes
Choupette 'in mourning' for Karl Lagerfeld: Cat's official Instagram tells of her 'broken heart' and hints her career will continue following star's death
Blac Chyna and Soulja Boy 'officially SPLIT after short-lived relationship' amid claims their romance was a hoax to get back at her ex Tyga
Advertisement
Does this mean a little princess is on the way? Meghan Markle's baby shower is covered with pretty PINK decor - from long-stem roses to cotton candy for guests
Obama watches Duke-UNC game  wearing bomber jacket embroidered with '44' - before tweeting support for injured Blue Devils star Zion Williamson
Caitlyn Jenner, 69, opts for casual display on dinner date with galpal Sophia Hutchins, 22, after becoming a grandparent for the seventh time
Sent from heaven! Victoria's Secret model Bridget Malcolm goes topless as she frolics on the beach in nothing but skimpy bikini bottoms   
Winnie Harlow sizzles in a low-cut white dress at Warner Music bash in London after confusing viewers with 'random' dancing during BRIT Awards ceremony
'Sometimes you need to accept your runner-up status': Katharine McPhee tweets that Bernie Sanders should 'move on' and forget about White House bid
Gigi Hadid looks somber as she arrives at the Fendi show in Milan... after paying tribute to Karl Lagerfeld at the label's fashion house 
Daniel Radcliffe admits he turned to alcohol as a 'way of forgetting' people were watching him during the height of his Harry Potter fame
Scarlett Johansson keeps warm in tweed coat while on walk with daughter in NYC  Actress remained business as usual in Big Apple
Halsey and new beau Yungblud beam on LA outing as they match in leather... after the singer shuts down pregnancy rumors Pair looked smitten
Advertisement
Defiant Empire star Jussie Smollet says he will FIGHT charge of filing false police report, hours after security footage of brothers surfaced
The Real's Adrienne Bailon says 'Tristan has a problem' as she backs Khloe Kardashian... while Sarah Hyland and Amanda Stanton also weigh in
Kim Kardashian sues fast fashion company for damages 'in excess of $10 million' for posting their own versions of outfits Kim was wearing 
Academic Camille Paglia calls Bradley Cooper's  'A Star is Born' a 'misogynistic disgrace' while touting 1976 Streisand version as a 'feminist landmark'
Nikki Bella opens up about going out on first date with Peter Kraus with cameras rolling and admits she got 'drunk' The 35-year-old WWE star made confession
R. Kelly's lawyer compares him to BEETHOVEN as he argues the scandal-hit singer should be allowed to stay in his Chicago studio at night 
Brielle Biermann, 21, confirms she's single after breaking up with Slade Osborne for a second time Reconcilliation attempts have failed  
Duchess Kate's black sheep Uncle Gary is unapologetic months after finishing a community order for punching his wife 
Barbara Palvin cuts elegant figure in classic black dress as she wraps her arms around beau Dylan Sprouse Pair looked smitten
Artist behind Meghan Markle portrait featured in Beyonce and Jay-Z's BRIT Awards acceptance speech says he hasn't been paid for use of his work
Advertisement
Meghan's star-studded baby shower comes to end with co-host Amal Clooney and VIPs including Gayle King and Jessica Mulroney departing penthouse
Dua Lipa wears diamanté bra under feathered jacket as she celebrates her Best Single win at BRITs star-studded Warner afterparty
Gwyneth Paltrow shares selfie with Iron Man co-star Robert Downey Jr. after saying she's 'a bit old' to be in Marvel movies Starred in all three flicks 
Constance Wu suits up to honor her make-up artist Molly Greenwald at Variety x Armani Dinner in LA 36-year-old Golden Globe nominee 
EXCLUSIVE: She's living the high life! Meghan ends her $502K New York getaway by boarding a $250K PRIVATE JET to return home to the UK
Blac Chyna maintains low profile during Starbucks run... amid allegations her romance with Soulja Boy was a hoax to troll her ex Tyga  
Milo Ventimiglia calls This Is Us co-star Mandy Moore a 'very giving, inspiring woman' amid her revelations about ex Ryan Adams
Miley Cyrus pokes out her tongue as she puts on a giddy display during wild night out with friends in Malibu She sings about having a Party In The USA
Olivia Munn dazzles in plunging striped top at Variety x Armani event in LA with Sara Sampaio Led a celebrity packed crowd
Lily Allen rocks a platinum blonde wig as she slips into a nude semi-sheer lingerie dress for Warner Music afterparty at BRIT Awards 
Advertisement
Kourtney Kardashian, 39, and son Mason, nine, are almost the same 5feet height as they head to art class in LA... amid Khloe cheating drama
Kaia Gerber and Bella Hadid opt for simplistic elegance for muted Max Mara show at MFW... as they return to work after friend Karl Lagerfeld's death
Richard E. Grant beams in a sweet snap with his daughter Olivia as the pair head to LA for the Oscars... ahead of star's Best Supporting Actor race
True Blood star Anna Paquin flaunts chic style as she steps out in green for press run in New York City   The 36-year-old couldn't help but smile 
Ben Higgins reveals 'special' secret girlfriend is Nashville-based account manager Jessica Clarke Has moved on from season winner Lauren 
Rose McGowan commands attention in sheer top as she enjoys a late night out at star-studded  Warner Music after-party at BRITs
Chris Hemsworth will play Hulk Hogan in Netflix 'origin story' biopic directed by The Hangover's Todd Phillips and written by Scott Silver 
Ashley Graham turns heads in orange dress as the model poses with Khloe Kardashian at Pretty Little Things party  
BRITs 2019: Jared Leto, 47, drives fans wild with his hunky look as some claim the actor hasn't aged a day since his breakout role in 1994's My So Called Life
Oscar Best Actress frontrunner Regina King and Tiffany Haddish glam up for the Alfre Woodard Sistahs Soiree in Beverly Hills All smiles for camera 
Advertisement
Newly engaged Sgt. Will Gardner Elisabeth Rohm shows off her stunning diamond ring at special screening of The Oath in LA  
Singer Leona Lewis steps out for screening of The Oath in Los Angeles in gorgeous ruffled frock... amid claims she's being lined up for X Factor UK
Drop The Mic: Christina Milian declares 'love' for Ashlee Simpson before beating her in rap battle The 37-year-old Dirrrty singer insisted she had 'love' 
Georgia May Jagger cuts a chic figure in a plunging black trouser suit as she leads the front row glamour at the Emporio Armani Milan Fashion Week show 
Halle Berry cuts a chic figure in animal-print dress as she steps out in Los Angeles Actress showed off her true fashion credentials as she chatted away  
Kim Kardashian unfollows Tristan Thompson for the SECOND time in one year and also quits Jordyn Woods after both betrayed Khloe
Julia Roberts cuts a casual figure in denim while on a walk with her adorable dog in Los Angeles Went for a low-key look on her stroll  
Teresa Giudice, 46, is spotted holding hands with 26-year-old hunk on Miami trip as husband Joe completes prison sentence and could get deported
EXCLUSIVE: Miranda Lambert's new cop husband caught on tape showing off his abs as he dances and teases that he got moves from being a stripper
Voice of Kim Possible Christy Carlson Romano and Brendan Rooney have second child: 'Welcome to the world, Sophia Elizabeth Rooney'
Advertisement
Pretty Little Liars alum Lucy Hale is a wintry wunderkind in checked coat and chic tight turtleneck while spotted out in a sunny Los Angeles 
Rita Ora commands attention in ruffled romper with cascading sleeves at VH1 Trailblazer Honors  Turned heads as she strutted into the event  
Alyssa Milano brings Hollywood glamour in pant suit with plunging neckline to VH1 Trailblazer Honors Looked stunning in the plunging two piece
Lisa Rinna takes to social media to again clarify pill-related birthday post to Lisa Vanderpump after suicide death of her brother 
A royally expensive party! Meghan Markle's baby shower cost a staggering $430,000, including the $75,000-a-night venue and the $125K private jet 
Priyanka Chopra couldn't attend Meghan Markle's baby shower due to 'work commitment'... but absence hasn't put a strain on friendship
EXCLUSIVE: Tristan Thompson is seen sneaking two curvy women into bedroom at party three days BEFORE he made out with Kylie's pal Jordyn
Hilary Duff and Matthew Koma wrap up warm in a baggy sweater and Gucci loafers to run errands in chilly LA without baby daughter Banks
PHOTO EXCLUSIVE: Doria Ragland spotted alone in LA while daughter Meghan Markle parties with famous friends at her $300K baby shower
Victoria Beckham and husband David share sweet birthday messages to son Cruz as he turns 14 Called her family unit the 'most important'
Advertisement
Jessica Simpson reveals her 'after baby diet goals' with throwback picture from the time she met Karl Lagerfeld Tot #3 due any day now
Pink puts on electrifying performance complete with rain and fire effects as she's awarded Outstanding Contribution at the BRIT Awards
Barack Obama slams hip-hop and rap music for promoting toxic masculinity saying 'if you are confident you don't have to have women twerking'
Angel unwrapped! Victoria's Secret model Georgia Fowler poses for her raciest shoot yet going topless on the cover of Maxim magazine
Sophie Turner says Sansa Stark will don armor in last season of Game of Thrones: 'She's like the warrior of Winterfell' Giving viewers a hint  
Demi Rose pours her incredible curves into a sheer sapphire fishtail gown as she leaves the BRIT Awards in London  Turned heads on arrival 
Sarah Hyland and Wells Adams enjoy kisses in the snow on romantic winter vacation Pair packed on the PDA  in Lake Tahoe
Lily Collins sparks romance rumors with Noah Centineo after getting into flirty exchange with actor over his shirtless Calvin Klein shoot
DailyMailTV Exclusive: Melissa Gorga insists Teresa Giudice and husband Joe are still together ... as photos surface of RHONJ star with younger man
Zac Efron is 'feeling fresh' after surgery to repair his ACL that was torn during snowboarding trip Updated fans on his post-surgery recovery
Advertisement
Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott decorated Stormi's nursery with butterflies because the insects were 'all around' when they met
Khloe Kardashian 'shocked and angry' Jordyn Woods hooked up with Tristan as images of them partying together a year ago are unearthed
Amal Clooney commands attention in strapless red jumpsuit as she arrives to co-host Meghan Markle's baby shower at $75k NYC hotel suite
Nigella Lawson admits she felt 'exposed and under attack' as she documents the 'trauma' of her drug and marriage 'shame' TV chef opens up  
Queer Eye's Karamo Brown thought he was 'getting punked' when he learned he had a ten-year-old son via $230K child support subpoena
Academy announces Serena Williams, Trevor Noah, civil rights leader John Lewis, chef Jose Andres, and Trevor Noah will present Best Picture Oscar nominees
Rue McClanahan of Golden Girls 'had two different kinds of strokes' when she died at 76 which could have been triggered by anxiety and smoking
Paris Jackson looks cool in bohemian frock as she poses with Paris Hilton at TINGS magazine bash in Los Angeles
Proud papa Andy Cohen shares cute photo of newborn son Benjamin bonding with his dog Wacha... days after fans accused pup of being jealous
Little Mix put on a VERY raunchy performance in hot pink leather outfits and thigh-high boots at the BRITs as fans accuse them of 'MIMING' their Woman Like Me 
Gigi Hadid carries a huge bouquet as she pays her respects to Karl Lagerfeld at the Fendi fashion house in Milan
Ivanka Trump's husband Jared gives their son a sweet kiss as he heads to work in snow, while she pays tribute to mom Ivana on her 70th birthday 
Annabelle Wallis slips into minuscule string briefs for a rare bikini snap during her tropical getaway Coldplay star Chris Martin's ex-girlfriend 
Mark Hamill still has 'rejected prototype' of Chewbacca mask from the original Star Wars film from 1977 Revealed his keepsake on Twitter  
Winnie Harlow oozes glamour in corseted floral gown and matching headwear at the BRIT Awards in London UK music bash
Gwyneth Paltrow says she is the victim in $3.1M ski crash and files countersuit saying doctor, 72, hit her from behind and ruined her day on the slopes 
BRITs 2019: Dua Lipa dares to bare in fuchsia frock with sheer lace bodice as she works the red carpet after receiving the most awards nods
Julia Roberts, 51,  flaunts her flawless skin makeup free on a rainy day in Los Angeles  Actress donned rain coat as she went out to buy coffee
Pink makes a bold fashion statement in a neon yellow halterneck dress ahead of being honored at BRIT Awards with Outstanding Contribution To Music 
Serena Williams shares selfies taken in bathroom at Meghan Markle's private baby shower venue to promote her own fashion label
BRITs 2019: Suki Waterhouse wears jewellery worth a combined £62,350 (including £37,000 earrings) as she graces the red carpet
Khloe Kardashian 'likes' fan comment that Tristan's cheating with Jordyn is 'not her fault'... as it's claimed NBA star 'isn't too worried' about NOT seeing True
The Wendy Williams Show going into reruns amid host's absence for 'medical reasons'... following claims she and husband Kevin are no longer 'involved'
Joan Smalls looks terrific in a VERY tiny LBD as she joins leggy Alessandra Ambrosio at Moncler's Milan Fashion Week show
Salma Hayek looks sensational in a purple floral silk dress as she joins husband
François-Henri Pinault and daughter Valentina at Gucci's MFW show 
Millie Bobby Brown looks giddy as she sports trendy bubble ponytail and vinyl jacket at Moncler's MFW show   A style icon at jut 15
Olivia Munn reveals that Brett Ratner called before his Howard Stern apology and claimed his false statements about being intimate with her were 'just a joke'
Amelia Gray confesses to her mother Lisa Rinna she 'could have died' from her eating disorder and believes it will be a lifelong struggle
Game of Thrones actress Natalie Dormer arrives at BRIT Awards in distressed JEANS as she shuns the formal red carpet dress code
Red carpet catastrophes! Montana Brown's barely-there bodycon and Paloma's VERY baggy peach ballgown lead WORST dressed at Brit awards
Ariana Grande calls personal life 'still nonexistent' 4 months after ending engagement to Pete Davidson as she makes appearance on Corden
Chloe Green cozies up to 'Hot Felon' Jeremy Meeks (before he strips off to hit the dance floor) at clothing launch in Dubai Together nearly 3 years
Irina Shayk oozes sophistication in a cream striped ensemble as she and grungy Stella Maxwell jet in to Milan Fashion Week 
Fox stands by 'consummate professional' Jussie Smollett and denies claims he is being written out of Empire
Pussycat Doll Ashley Roberts cuts a glamorous figure in an asymmetrical black and silver striped sequined dress at BRITs 2019
Kendra Wilkinson and ex Hank Baskett reunite to teach daughter Alijah to ride her bike  They've been through a tough time after ending marriage 10 months ago
The View debunks rumors that Whoopi Goldberg will surprise host the Academy Awards on Sunday as Joy Behar insists she has pneumonia
Happy birthday Princess Leonore! Madeleine of Sweden shares adorable unseen snap of her daughter as she turns five Big day for little girl
Cara Delevingne defends Karl Lagerfeld and lashes out at 'disrespectful' Jameela Jamil for calling him 'ruthless, fat-phobic misogynist'
Body language expert reveals how defiant Meghan did not avoid cameras in NYC so she could put on 'show of unity' with friends amid family drama
BRITs 2019: Hugh Jackman opens the evening with SPECTACULAR The Greatest Showman routine Music bash in London
Denise Richards set to play single mother with 'big secrets to spill' as she joins cast of The Bold And The Beautiful soap opera
Tax dollars at work! Meghan Markle is being driven around New York in a State Department SUV with U.S. special agents and NYPD protection 
Dolly Parton, 73, reveals she 'never slept with anyone unless she wanted to despite being hit on all the time as a young girl' as she discusses #MeToo 
Penn Badgley returns as obsessive killer Joe Goldberg as he films highly-anticipated second season of You in Los Angeles
Matthew Morrison's wife Renee Puente looks glam in a plunging white gown as she storms the red carpet with Greatest Dancer star at BRITs 2019
The Matrix has you! Stars like Gigi Hadid and Kourtney Kardashian step out in ensembles inspired by the 1999 sci-fi blockbuster
Madison Beer leaves little to the imagination as she flashes her underwear in a VERY racy nude sheer strapless dress at  the BRIT Awards in London
Bella Hadid dazzles in a bejeweled cutaway dress at the glitzy Alberta Ferretti in Milan Fashion Week show
Alessandra Ambrosio looks so chic in a cream cardigan as she saunters through the Italian streets during Milan Fashion Week
Khloe Kardashian 'CONFIRMS' Tristan Thompson and Jordyn Woods cheating scandal... before best pal Malika Haqq brands her 'a H*E'
'They told me they would slice my neck': Michael Jackson's people 'threatened to kill maid if she went public with sex abuse claims about star'
Portia de Rossi reveals she got wife Ellen gardening tools for her 61st birthday as couple give update on gorilla conservation fund
Christina Hendricks stands out in a blue gown with a galaxy-print overlay at the Costume Designers Guild Awards The 43-year-old showed off her curves
Bella Hadid catches the eye in a kooky fur-look Louis Vuitton hat as she steps out during Milan Fashion Week
Little Mix rule the red carpet in VERY daring gowns as they prepare to battle it out with pop's finest at BRIT Awards 2019 in London
Rihanna lives it up in racy fluro green dress as singer celebrates her 31st birthday She's got a big year ahead, with fans eagerly awaiting her next album
Serena Williams and Amal Clooney prepare to host baby shower for Meghan in America's most expensive hotel room - a $75,000-A-NIGHT penthouse suite
Kylie Jenner is 'torn and facing pressure from her family to cut ties with BFF Jordyn Woods' after the model 'hooked up with Khloe 's beau Tristan'
Jussie Smollett has a history of lying to the cops and once pretended to be his little brother when he was pulled over for a 2007 DUI in Los Angeles
Model Kelly Brook, 39, commands attention in a plunging ruby red sequin gown with a soaring thigh-high split at the BRIT Awards in London
Duchess Kate's brother James Middleton's gift company unwittingly created boxes plastered with Nazi swastikas and anti-Semitic images
Miranda Lambert's new police officer husband reassigned from patrolling Times Square on foot due to increased media attention post-wedding
Resurfaced 1971 Playboy interview of John Wayne in which he makes homophobic and racist remarks sparks controversy on social media
BRITs 2019: Paloma Faith looks typically kooky in a billowing peach gown with sheer cape as she larks around on the red carpet 
Lily Allen dazzles in semi-sheer floral gown as she prepares to battle it out for Best British Female at the BRIT Awards in London
Singer Andrea Corr, 44, parades her lean figure in a scanty scalloped edge bikini as she goes paddle-boarding in Barbados
Heidi Klum shares emotional video of her time on America's Got Talent as she breaks her silence on shock departure after six years 
Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills' Denise Richards confesses to  her co-stars she had sex with beau Aaron Phypers while he was at work
Karl Lagerfeld's ashes will be mixed with the remains of his one true love who died of AIDS in 1989: Designer kept urn holding boyfriend of 18 years
Mark Harmon covers People 32 YEARS after being named their Sexiest Man Alive as he dishes on the secrets of his success Still got it at 67
Emma Bunton looks effortlessly chic in a white tailored blazer dress as she wows on the star-studded red carpet at BRITs 2019 
Human Ken Doll Rodrigo Alves steps out in Milan... after revealing huge dent in his chin after implant RUPTURED leaving him crying and in agony
Harry's back in uniform! Prince arrives at the Royal Marines base in Devon for a day of training - while Meghan celebrates her baby shower in NYC
Victoria Beckham's LFW thigh-high leopard print boots leave fashion fans fearing for their feet - and asking 'where's the ankle support?'
Ariana Grande and Piers Morgan finally end their bitter feud during LA dinner date as singer says she hopes to convert former nemesis to feminism
Advertisement
DON'T MISS
Jamie Lynn Spears' baby daddy Casey Aldridge 'arrested with prescription drugs including Oxycodone on him while passed out in a car'
A tribute to Karl? Queen Maxima of The Netherlands teams a vibrant coral and blue outfit with a Chanel handbag during royal engagements
Victoria Beckham slams 'nonsense' speculation about marriage to David and insists they are 'stronger' ahead of 20th anniversary
Hugh Jackman gets VERY flirty with TV interviewer... as she invites him to her jacuzzi before he 'promises to give her his love' Steamy moments
Kourtney Kardashian, 39, runs into ex Younes Bendjima, 25, at coffee shop six months after split... amid claims they got 'handsy and super flirty'
Chloe Grace Moretz looks like she means business in navy blue coat and fiery red pants as she promotes Greta in NYC
Lucy Boynton displays flair in structured denim dress and matching jacket as Saoirse Ronan nails androgynous chic  at Gucci's Milan Fashion Week show
Dua Lipa and Lily Allen show off preparations for glitzy BRITs Awards on social media... as stars receive glam squad makeovers and carb-load ahead of show
Kaia Gerber heads back to work during Milan Fashion Week as she's seen for the first time since paying tribute to Karl Lagerfeld after his death
Model Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, 31, reveals she has cut dairy and eggs from her diet in a bid to free herself of oily skin and adult acne
Royally romantic! Queen Letizia of Spain embraces husband King Felipe in a rare show of PDA as he receives an award at the World Law Congress in Madrid
Yankees great Mariano Rivera calls child support allegations 'unfounded' amid claims he 'abandoned' son, 11, and daughter, 15, he had outside marriage
Bella Hadid shows off her VERY slender waistline as she grabs coffee in Milan... after complaining about having to start work at 8:30am
Pregnant Meghan Markle flashes a wide smile as she heads for dinner at swanky NYC restaurant with Serena Williams and Jessica Mulroney
Winnie Harlow commands attention in embellished sheer gown as she leads the catwalk glamour for Byblos presentation at Milan Fashion Week
Jussie Smollett 'has agreed to talk to police again to stop Nigerian brothers from testifying against him in front of a grand jury'
Richard E. Grant warms fans hearts as he eagerly tweets his 'once in a lifetime' Oscars invite... ahead of Best Supporting Actor race
Puppy play date! Duchess of Cornwall looks elegant in a green coat as she meets some furry friends at opening of a new Medical Detection Dogs center
Lottie Moss reveals her ample cleavage and taut midriff in skimpy Calvin Klein underwear as she jets into Madrid  Kate Moss's kid sister
Slim Shady's still got it! American rapper Eminem, 46, thrills fans in Brisbane during his first show as part of his Rapture Australian tour  
Jennifer Lopez rocks pink crop top and tight leggings at the gym with Alex Rodriguez and Ryan Lochte... as she embarks on round two of 10-day diet
Empire and Nashville actress Kaitlin Doubleday welcomes first child with Devin Lucien A baby boy named Franklin
'Michael told me if they ever found out what we were doing, we would go to jail': Jackson accusers speak out about 'abuse' at the King of Pop's ranch
How Chanel intern rose to become Karl Lagerfeld's right-hand woman and 'secret weapon' while keeping a VERY low profile - and will now succeed him
Glenn Close, 71, dazzles in metallic co-rds to accept Spotlight award from Costume Designers Guild... as she is tipped for Oscars glory
Wanda Sykes and Whitney Cummings lead the outraged celebrities SLAMMING Burberry over its shocking 'noose' sweatshirt Fashion faux pas  
Kevin Spacey's estranged brother fears the actor could kill himself after dozens of men made sexual assault allegations against the star
Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson: A complete timeline of love, children and messy cheating scandals They have officially split 
Rita Ora sizzles in plunging gown as she reunites with ex Andrew Watt at star-studded magazine launch in Los Angeles
She's got the blues! Princess Anne, 68, wraps up in a chic navy outfit as she visits Glasgow College to celebrate its 50th anniversary
'Fake news' Tristan Thompson tweets and then DELETES reaction to claims he cheated on Khloe with Kyle's BFF Jordyn Woods  It was quickly removed  
'Should I call her?' Rebel Wilson breaks down about her sister Liberty during an emotional reading with celebrity medium Tyler Henry 
The Walking Dead stars Danai Gurira and Sonequa Martin-Green are reunited as they cross paths at the 21st Costume Designers Guild Awards
Nigerian brothers 'tell police Jussie Smollett WAS behind threatening letter he received a week before the "staged" attack'
Susan Boyle returns to her humble lifestyle as she sits at the bus stop in her tracksuit back home after competing in glamorous AGT: The Champions show
Farrah Abraham shows off her toned abs  in sparkly crop top and sweatpants for daughter Sophia's ninth birthday party in New York City
EXCLUSIVE: Samantha Markle urges sister Meghan to use her baby shower trip to the US to meet up with her estranged father Thomas
Selma Blair steps out with boyfriend David Price while shopping in Beverly Hills amid MS battle The actress seemed in good spirits  
Olivia Munn is effortlessly stylish in black sweater and navy trousers for Extra interview at Universal Studios in LA Actress looked radiant
Dakota Johnson candidly admits her 'hormonal changes are ruining her life every month' as she discusses 'traumatic' menstrual cycle
Halsey runs errands with new beau Youngblud in Beverly Hills after tweeting she'd like to see a 'gay' Twilight movie Pair looked smitten  
Watch What Happens Live: Lisa Rinna reunites with Andy Cohen for first time since wild baby shower Pair had a lot to talk about
Heavily pregnant Meghan's 10,000-mile trips to THREE continents: Duchess clocks up air miles on visits to America and Africa weeks before tot
PICTURED: 21 Savage's new mugshot is released after turning himself in following theft by deception arrest Rapper caught up in trouble
Al Pacino, 78, cuts a casual figure as he enjoys downtime in Beverly Hills... after filming latest film Axis Sally
Soulja Boy professes his 'love' to Tiona Fernan after faux Valentine's fling with Blac Chyna The curvaceous Insta-model replied: 'Love you more babe!'
'Karl forever': Fashion fans mourning the Chanel designer dust off their most treasured pieces by Mr Lagerfeld for glamorous Instagram snaps
Orlando Bloom gushes that he and Katy Perry are 'grinning from ear to ear' in snowy snaps... as the actor speaks out for the first time since engagement news
Adele and Drake 'visit a vape lounge and rent out an ENTIRE bowling alley' during night out... months after singer made an unexpected appearance at his show
Halle Berry sets the gold standard donning a shimmering strapless frock to the 21st annual Costume Designers Guild Awards
Ariana Grande surprises pint-sized boy band TNT Boys during a stop by The Late Late Show With James Corden
Billie Lourd glams up in a slinky feathered metallic dress as she attends swanky Costume Designers Guild Awards in Beverly Hills
What a view! Topless Chris Hemsworth flaunts his perfect pecs and bulging biceps while hitting the waves for a film shoot Showed his buff body  
Brittany Snow reveals she's engaged to realtor Tyler Stanaland and calls him 'the man of my wildest and most beautiful dreams' Shared loved-up image 
Marisa Tomei stuns in a plunging palm-print dress as she joins glamorous Christina Hendricks and Sarah Paulson at Costume Designers Guild Awards
Bump's day out! Meghan Markle enjoys an afternoon trip to an art museum and a luxury New York hotel with former Suits co-star Abigail Spencer 
Kourtney Kardashian leaves Kanye West's studio in pristine white outfit and tan trench coat... amid news of sister Khloe's split Was a vision in white
Victoria's Secret Angel Jasmine Tookes shows off her enviably lean legs in black slip dress with thigh-high slit at lingerie launch in London
Lord Of The Rings: Amazon's $1 billion TV series' script is so heavily-guarded it's kept in a locked, windowless room with FINGERPRINT ACCESS 
Model Cara Delevingne, 26, goes NAKED underneath her blazer as she strips off for a second time for racy Balmain campaign
Bachelor Colton Underwood teams up with Nick Viall, Tanner Tolbert and Jason Mesnick... after unceremoniously dumping Hannah B
Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson 'have great chemistry' said Jordyn Woods months before cheating scandal Words coming back to haunt her?
Rose McGowan looks fierce in a black fleece mini dress as she arrives in style at the Perrier-Jouet and Richard Quinn party 
She woke up like this! Instagram model Tammy Hembrow wears a full face of makeup as she snaps glamorous selfies in bed  
Kaia Gerber looks giddy on night out with rumored boyfriend Wellington Grant ahead of Milan Fashion Week  Did little to quell rumors
Ariel Winter flaunts cleavage in revealing lace-up black top at the Museum of Ice Cream in San Francisco Donned a revealing  ensemble
Pete Davidson reunites with ex-girlfriend Carly Aquilino weeks after canoodling with Kate Beckinsale The stand-up comics  both did sets
Kate Walsh stuns in black mini dress before transforming into iconic film characters as she hosts the Costume Designers Guild Awards
Darren Criss and Mia Swier are already in the honeymoon phase as they beam while arriving at LAX after their New Orleans wedding
Russell Crowe and Sienna Miller transform into disgraced Fox News chief Roger Ailes and his wife for new series The Loudest Voice In The Room
'IVF warrior' Jenna Jameson says getting pregnant with daughter at 43 was 'one of the hardest things I've endured' in honest Instagram post 
Eleanor Tomlinson flashes her trim pins in sexy asymmetrical frock as she joins Jaime King and Nina Dobrev for star-studded Vanity Fair bash
EXCLUSIVE: Meghan Markle's mother Doria Ragland walks her dog alone in LA while her daughter steps out in NYC ahead of swanky baby shower
Heather Locklear looks happy and healthy as she goes grocery shopping amid reports the troubled star has reunited with on-and-off beau Chris Heisser
Spice Girl Geri Horner is every inch the proud mum as she takes son Monty, two, on a tractor ride... after the toddler pushed a toy one in sweet video
Kim Kardashian shares adorable photo of her three-year-old son Saint sticking out his tongue Captioned the image, 'My whole heart 
Taron Egerton steps into Elton John's platform shoes as singer's iconic Dodger Stadium performance is brought to life in FIRST Rocketman trailer
Dame Helen Mirren, Michael B. Jordan and Pharrell Williams join the list of presenters at the 2019 Oscars All-star line up for Sunday's ceremony
Netflix spoofs A Star Is Born's 'Ally' billboard to promote Amy Schumer's new comedy special on Hollywood's Sunset Strip  
How Khloe Kardashian helped Jordyn Woods break into modeling with Good American gig... before painful 'betrayal' with baby daddy Tristan Thompson 
Chloe Bennet dons sparkly sweater dress for leggy look at Vanity Fair and L'Oreal Paris New Hollywood Party ahead of Oscars
Aaron Sorkin shoots down rumors of The Newsroom reboot on The Late Late Show with James Corden Fans were given a glimmer of hope 
Kristen Stewart cuts a casual cool figure in black as she enjoys solo stroll in Los Angeles Joined later on the outing by her girlfriend
Chloe Grace Moretz wears short-sleeve black dress over colorful blouse at Greta screening in NYC The actress turned heads on the red carpet 
Chicago police rule out tip that Jussie Smollett 'was seen on the night of his alleged attack in the elevator of his apartment building with the two brothers
Jussie Smollett's siblings share Malcolm X quote in an Instagram post to say he has been vilified by the 'irresponsible media' with hoax attack theory
Tinashe no longer under RCA label after seven years: 'It was time to part ways' The singer's manager told Rolling Stone she  'wasn't dropped'
Jennifer Lopez displays her impeccable abs as she promotes upcoming season of World Of Dance She still has a flawless physique  
Kate Mara carefully masks her burgeoning belly with a stylish Celine handbag while running errands in Beverly Hills Kept it low key  
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez 'back on' extreme 10-day no-sugar, no-carbs diet... weeks after their first fast A strict regime  
Sofia Vergara takes a walk on the wild side in leopard print jacket and sky high heels  The Modern Family actress, 46, showed off her fabulous figure
Cara Santana stuns in caramel suit with fiance Jesse Metcalfe at event in Los Angeles She lead a host of celebrities down the red carpet
Bella Hadid looks ravishing in a red dress at Bulgari event in Italy... after confessing she 'couldn't stop crying' over Karl Lagerfeld's passing 
Heidi Klum helps style scantily clad model covered in rainbow body paint as she films the latest season of Germany's Next Top Model
It's all over: Oscar-favorite Lady Gaga announces split from her talent agent fiancé Christian Carino... one year after he proposed with $400K ring
From his collection of 300 iPods and 2,400 shirts to his acid asides (not least to 'sweet but stupid' Princess Diana) everything about Karl Lagerfeld 
Heartbroken Charo reveals her film producer husband killed himself after battling rare but excruciatingly painful SKIN disease Broken her silence 
Harvey Weinstein breaks silence to reject Gwyneth Paltrow's claim he wanted to cast Ben Affleck in Joseph Fiennes' Shakespeare In Love role
Will Karl Lagerfeld make Choupette the world's richest cat or will his £150million go to his young American godson Hudson? 
Noah Cyrus breaks down in tears after ex Lil Xan announces his fiancée is five weeks pregnant Emotional moment for Miley's kid sister 
Emma Roberts flaunts slender stems in jean shorts and stockings as she saunters through LA with a friend during magic hour  
Could this little boy be in line to inherit a bulk of Karl Lagerfeld's fortune? Meet 11-year-old Hudson Kroenig, his godson from New Jersey
Katy Perry dedicates 'Shoesday' to late designer Karl Lagerfeld after kicking up shoe controversy over blackface Twitter tribute  
Jasmine Sanders stuns in black sequin jumpsuit and sheer dress for Bulgari anniversary party ahead of Milan Fashion Week  
Tommy Lee is portrayed by rapper Machine Gun Kelly in first trailer for upcoming Motley Crue biopic The Dirt  
Flipping Out's Jeff Lewis says he and ex Gage Edward still work together and relationship is 'very civil' Keeping it professional  
Miranda Lambert's new husband 'cheated on soccer player fiance and got another woman pregnant'... before marrying singer weeks after they met
Chris Pratt captions Katherine Schwarzenegger's first solo photo of her fiance after couple welcomes a new lamb to the family Loving farm life  
Paris Jackson looks somber on solo walk with her dog in LA wearing denim shorts and boots before release of Leaving Neverland trailer
Gwyneth Paltrow reveals she had a 'really hard time' after 'terrible breakup' with Brad Pitt Actress has opened up about their doomed romance
EXCLUSIVE: Lee and Me: Carole Radziwill pens loving essay about her friendship with mother-in-law Lee Radziwill and shares intimate family photos 
David Arquette takes 'full responsibility' for ex-wife Courtney Cox's terrible hairdo in Scream 3 Revealed the wig was his idea  
Former CEO of Paramount and Fox Barry Diller says Netflix has won the game and Hollywood is now irrelevant
Lily James looks effortlessly chic in a teddy bear coat and baker boy cap as she leaves the theater in London after another night on stage 
Rebecca Gayheart smiles as she and ex Eric Dane leave a meeting with their divorce lawyer They announced their split last year  
Barack Obama spends Presidents' Day dining at high-end San Francisco barbecue restaurant with Steph and Ayesha Curry and Chrissy Teigen and John Legend
Orange Is The New Black adds Alicia Witt to the cast for the show's seventh and final season She will play low-key socialite Zelda  
'My 600lb Life' star Sean Milliken who weighed more than 900lbs at his heaviest and was terrified he wouldn't live to see 30, dies age 29 in Texas
Gigi Hadid cuts a somber figure as she steps out after paying tribute to late 'genius' Karl Lagerfeld and says she is 'overwhelmed with sadness'
Meghan once gushed about the 'mother f**king fantastic' food in New York - saying it is how the city keeps her 'wrapped around its little finger'
2 Chainz takes to social media to reveal he is collaborating with LeBron James for his upcoming fifth studio album  
Sophie Turner turns heads in leather mini skirt and $1,775 Louis Vuitton slippers as she leaves London hotel She never fails to impress on an outing
EXCLUSIVE: Jennifer Lawrence's fiancé Cooke Maroney was a 'quiet yet popular guy' who shunned spotlight - but was voted best with his high school girlfriend
Drew Barrymore gets a new look as she sports prosthetic nose on the set of The Stand In in New York City Star was hardly recognizable
Priyanka Chopra lets her Instagram followers know she is in Beverly Hills while her friend Meghan Markle enjoys her baby shower in NYC
Emma Thompson DROPS OUT of animated movie Luck because she didn't want to work with John Lasseter after his sexual harassment scandal
Vanderpump Rules' Jax Taylor parties with girls in a hotel room... and fiance Brittany Cartwright isn't happy about the 'hoes'
'I loved working with you': Nicole Kidman, Kylie Minogue and Shanina Shaik join a legion of celebrities paying tribute to the late Karl Lagerfeld
On the mend! Liam Hemsworth cuts a low-key figure as he heads out to lunch with after being hospitalised for kidney stones
Jenna Dewan turns heads in low-cut top and camouflage pants as she walks into LAX... after Disneyland date with beau Steve Kazee
'People don't understand what hair and makeup and fillers can do': Kylie Jenner insists she's NEVER gone under the knife as she shows off curves
EXCLUSIVE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's matchmaker Misha Nonoo flashes her giant diamond ring after getting engaged to oil heir Mikey Hess
Perky in pink! Tammy Hembrow reveals a generous glimpse of cleavage as she leaves the gym in racy neon activewear and a full face of makeup
Adele is 'too fat', Kim Kardashian is to blame for getting robbed and I don't like Pippa Middleton's face: Karl Lagerfeld's most shocking remarks 
Look out, world! She stole the show at NYFW, now five-year-old fashionista Taylen Biggs launches beauty collection and digital platform
Avril Lavigne reveals she has been dating billionaire  Phillip Sarofim for ONE YEAR as she expresses her relief that he's not in the music business
Kendall Jenner shows off her toned tum and lean legs as she poses in a bra and jeans for new Calvin Klein ad - while Noah Centineo flaunts rippling muscles 
More than half of Jussie Smollett's 'scenes on Empire have been cut and show writers are scrambling to fill in the gaps' amid 'hoax' attack scandal
Hilary Duff throws surprise 33rd birthday dinner for her sister Haylie  Ashley Tisdale was among the guests in Studio City 
Jackie O could have 'set sister Lee Radziwill up for life' but instead 'cut her out of her will after years of fighting over men and their mother's affections'
Natalie Portman and family attempt to duck out of hotel after getting caught up in media chaos surrounding Duchess Meghan's 'baby shower' 
Cardi B asks Offset if he wants to watch her get laser hair removal as he munches on pizza in the waiting room before leaving LA salon separately
Melania Trump posts a personal tribute to Karl Lagerfeld while sharing a sketch of suit he designed for her first official White House appearance
Olivia Munn leads the winter fashion parade at the Emily's List pre-Oscar event in Beverly Hills as Minka Kelly and Lala Kent also dazzle
Gwyneth Paltrow opens up about having screaming matches with 'bully boss' Harvey Weinstein and reveals Jack Nicholson asked her out 
Matt Damon's wife Luciana Barroso, 43, shows off her incredibly toned figure in a tiny black bikini as she hits the beach  with her husband
Check her out! Prince Harry's ex Cressida Bonas looks chic in an oversized coat as she attends the Rixo presentation at London Fashion Week
How Karl Lagerfeld transformed Chanel from an ailing label known for prim tweed suits to an edgy celebrity favorite (but failed to win UK royals) 
Lena Dunham playfully plants a kiss on her acupuncturist pal Russell Brown during rare outing in Los Angeles Pair grabbed a coffee
Fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld has died in France at age 85, after being rushed to hospital following a short battle with pancreatic cancer
Georgia May Jagger makes a bold style statement in a floral puffball dress as she joins Adwoa Aboah on the runway at the LFW Richard Quinn show
Dolly Parton denies she's gay after years of speculation as she slams 'gossips' who claim her best friend is her secret girlfriend
Kim Kardashian calls Karl Lagerfeld an 'inspiration' in loving tribute... even though he said she was short and 'not super slim'  Reality star's tribute
Andrea Corr, 44, displays her toned figure in blue zigzag print bikini as she enjoys a refreshing paddleboarding session in Barbados
Ariana Grande parties with pals before becoming first act since The Beatles to sweep Billboard Hot 100 top three at once
Khloe Kardashian shares photo with True at grocery store... after claims her beau Tristan Thompson was 'flirty and hitting up girls' at a saloon
Andy Cohen says he can't stop staring at Benjamin... and jokes newborn is even 'more interesting than hot guys on Instagram' First time dad at 50.
Young Blue Eyes! Incredible photographs show a pre-fame Frank Sinatra before he became a global phenomenon and leader of the Rat Pack 
Emma Watson shakes hands with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris as they meet at G7 Gender Equality Advisory Council
Seven-months pregnant Meghan Markle goes incognito as she covers up in cap for secret trip to New York for a baby shower thrown by friends
Tensions run high on The Bachelor and Colton is confused as three women are sent home with just four remaining for the hometowns
From the Makers of Candy Crush
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
