Trump States Republicans Will Be Blamed for Shutdown
Editor: Vlad Rothstein | Tactical Investor
Many readers wrote in stating that they loved the concept of us posting excerpts to other interesting articles. In keeping with that theme, we think the following post could make for a great read. A wide array of topics is covered as we believe that in today’s world of finance everything is interrelated.   Mass Psychology states that if you centre of attention is on one particular target; it is akin to looking at the tree only and forgetting that it is part of the forest.  Lastly, the media is rife with fake news ; in reality, the media pushes nothing but fake news for lies sell more than the truth
 
WASHINGTON — As lawmakers pointed fingers on Capitol Hill and entered into a government shutdown, recent polls show Republicans and President Trump would bear most of the blame.
But Republicans still think they have the winning message despite the Senate blocking a short-term spending bill Friday night.
“In the public’s eyes this will be another divisive moment, another moment of unease,” said Tim Malloy, assistant director of the Quinnipiac poll. “If you’re someone facing a 2018 election, any kind of chaos and unease is going to hurt you. And if you’re a Republican, which controls the House, the Senate and the presidency, you may be more vulnerable.”
Republicans are calling it the “Schumer Shutdown,” after Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., tweeted on Friday that “Senate Democrats are charging into governmental chaos.”
Senate Democrats are charging into governmental chaos. They should abandon this reckless shutdown strategy and join the House in keeping the government open and our troops funded.
Democrats, in return, point to GOP control of Washington.
 
President Donald Trump has spent the past few days using his Twitter account to blame Democrats for a potential impending shutdown, hyperbolically accusing them of favoring amnesty for all over the U.S. military. But his tactic isn’t working, and according to a new poll out Tuesday, Americans will blame Trump and the Republican Party should Congress and the president fail to fund the government past the Friday night deadline.
“The Democrats want to shut down the Government over Amnesty for all and Border Security. The biggest loser will be our rapidly rebuilding Military, at a time we need it more than ever. We need a merit based system of immigration, and we need it now! No more dangerous Lottery,” the president tweeted Tuesday morning.
The Democrats want to shut down the Government over Amnesty for all and Border Security. The biggest loser will be our rapidly rebuilding Military, at a time we need it more than ever. We need a merit based system of immigration, and we need it now! No more dangerous Lottery.
 
(CNN)If House Republicans can’t find a way to wrangle their always-fractious conference to support legislation that would avoid a government shutdown by Friday night, they are likely to bear the brunt of the blame for the closure and pay a serious political price as well.
The “why” is simple. Because a) the GOP controls all levers of power — House, Senate and White House — in Washington and b) average people are aware of a).
“Republicans control the House, they control the Senate and they control the presidency,” Vermont Sen. Pat Leahy told CNN on Tuesday. “The government stays open if they want it to stay open and shuts down if they want it to shut down.”
And yet, despite this split control, the blame fell squarely on the shoulders of congressional Republicans. In a Washington Post-ABC poll conducted shortly after the shutdown ended, a majority of Americans (53%) blamed Republicans for the impasse while 29% blamed Obama. In that same poll, just 1 in 3 people said they had a favorable view of the Republican Party — the lowest that number had been in the history of the poll. Read more
Other Stories of Interest
