Simply tap the
button below, and choose
"Add to Home Screen"
The mobile shortcut will then be added as an icon on your home screen.
Press your menu button and find the option to bookmark this page (a star icon for some browsers).  Then choose the option to add this bookmark to your home screen.
APP Frontpage
'This guy weaponized intel operation to attack political candidate'
Published: 01/31/2019 at 12:49 PM
Ex-CIA Director John Brennan
John Brennan, the former CIA director whose security clearance was withdrawn by President Trump, has been bashing the president regularly on social media.
The latest example came this week when he accused Trump of “intellectual bankruptcy.”
Brennan even charged it is the president who is “the danger” to national security.
“KABOOM: Dan Bongino drops a MASSIVE self-awareness nuke on Trump-triggered former CIA Director John Brennan,” the headline said.
“Former CIA Director John Brennan is again highly troubled, in a very dramatic way, about President Trump and his comments about the intel community, specifically in reference to Iran,” the site said.
Brennan had posted on Twitter: “Your refusal to accept the unanimous assessment of U.S. intelligence on Iran, No. Korea, ISIS, Russia, & so much more shows the extent of your intellectual bankruptcy. All Americans, especially members of Congress, need to understand the danger you pose to our national security.”
The president had said: “The Intelligence people seem to be extremely passive and naïve when it comes to the dangers of Iran. They are wrong! When I became President Iran was making trouble all over the Middle East, and beyond. Since ending the terrible Iran Nuclear Deal, they are MUCH different, but …”
Bongino charged Brennan has “weaponized the intelligence operation he headed to politically attack a political candidate he disagreed with.”
This guy weaponized the intelligence operation he headed to politically attack a political candidate he disagreed with.  https://t.co/yc14Is4Tl9
A cartoon showed Brennan holding a “Trump Secret Campaign Files” folder and saying, “We were spying on Trump to protect him.”
Bongino , a former Secret Service agent, has presented evidence that Brennan was the “quarterback” in the Obama administration of a scheme to spy on the Trump campaign.
“You understand that John Brennan was the puppet master of the entire scheme to violate the civil liberties of Donald Trump and his team? John Brennan was that guy,” Bongino said in an interview last fall with the Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson.
Bongino pointed out that on Aug. 25, 2016, Brennan briefed then-Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid on the Hill about elements in the still unverified “dossier” funded by the Democratic Party “that then made it into a letter from Harry Reid to the FBI.”
The salacious claims against Trump from Russian sources later were used as the basis for obtaining a warrant to spy on Trump campaign volunteer Carter Page.
“And we’re supposed to trust this guy?” Bongino said of Brennan. “This guy should get off Twitter and hire a lawyer.”
Brennan’s security clearance was revoked last August by President Trump, who claimed the former CIA director “has recently leveraged his status … to make a series of unfounded and outrageous allegations, wild outbursts on the internet and on television, about this administration.”
Bongino noted Brennan told NBC’s Chuck Todd and others that he still has no hard evidence that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton.
“Yet, he weaponized the government to attack Donald Trump,” Bongino said.
In a New York Times op-ed , Brennan called President Trump’s revocation of his security clearance “politically motivated” and an attempt to “scare others who might challenge him.”
He said Trump’s claims that his campaign did not collude with Russia are “hogwash.”
“The only questions that remain,” Brennan claimed at the time, “are whether the collusion that took place constituted criminally liable conspiracy, whether obstruction of justice occurred to cover up any collusion or conspiracy, and how many members of ‘Trump Incorporated’ attempted to defraud the government by laundering and concealing the movement of money into their pockets.”
However, as evidence, Brennan pointed to Trump’s comment in front of TV cameras during the 2016 campaign that the Russians should find Hillary Clinton’s “30,000 emails that are missing,” which appeared to be done in jest.
Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal lawyer, then said: “I’m gonna tell you who orchestrated, who was the quarterback for all of this. It isn’t just (fired FBI agent Peter) Strzok. He’s a bit of a puppet. It’s not just Mueller, he’s a puppet.
“The guy running it was Brennan. And he should be in front of a grand jury,” the former New York City mayor said.
WND reported Trump revoked Brennan’s security clearance after Brennan accused Trump of being “treasonous.”
Usually former intelligence directors are allowed to keep their clearances so they can consult with their successors and as a courtesy.
However, Trump said neither reason could justify Brennan’s access to classified information.
“If he has top-secret clearance as unhinged as he is now, he’s calling the president treasonous, saying he is for the death penalty of the president, this is alarming,” Paul said.
Scott Johnson at the Powerline blog charged Brennan with having “animus nakedly on display.”
“He is demented by hatred,” Johnson wrote. “Is this really the public role a former director of the CIA is to be playing?”
Russia expert Paul Kengor noted Brennan, responding to FBI probes of corruption and other problems, “uncorked an epic Twitter rant against Trump.”
Brennan wrote at the time: “When the full extent of your venality, moral turpitude, and political corruption becomes known, you will take your rightful place as a disgraced demagogue in the dustbin of history. You may scapegoat Andy McCabe, but you will not destroy America. … America will triumph over you.”
Kengor highlighted Brennan’s radical background, noting the Obama CIA director voted for Communist Party candidate Gus Hall for president of the United States.
He wrote:
For those too young to remember, Gus Hall was the longtime hack and head of Communist Party USA, beginning in 1959 until his death in 2000. Not even Joe Stalin as a party general secretary came close to matching Gus Hall’s interminable tenure. Hall was unwaveringly dedicated to a global communist revolution and a truly Evil Empire that was ultimately and blessedly consigned to “the dustbin of history.”
Brennan once was probed for perjury because he had, under oath before the House Intelligence Committee, testified that the infamous anti-Trump “dossier” funded by the Democratic Party played no role in the intelligence community’s publicly released conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 election.
Brennan further declared he did not know who commissioned the opposition-research document, even though senior national security and counter-intelligence officials at the Justice Department and FBI knew the previous year it was funded by the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.
After Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., accused the CIA of spying on members of the Senate by hacking into computers used by her intelligence committee’s staffers, Brennan said, “Let me assure you the CIA was in no way spying on [the committee] or the Senate.”
However, a CIA inspector general’s report found the CIA was spying on the Senate, and Brennan was forced to privately apologize to intelligence committee chairmen.
Brennan also claimed in a 2011 speech that there had not been “a single collateral death” from U.S. drone strikes because of their “exceptional proficiency [and] precision.’” However, the Bureau of Investigative Journalism found that one U.S. drone strike alone had killed 42 Pakistanis, “most of them civilians.”
Ora TV
