Last
Search for:
Home News Trump’s ex-counselor compared himself to Kim Kardashian in a rashagate trial
Trump’s ex-counselor compared himself to Kim Kardashian in a rashagate trial
Follow us in
!
Roger Stone, a former adviser to Donald Trump, who is charged with giving false testimony and obstructing the investigation of the alleged Russian interference in the US presidential elections in 2016, opposed the initiative to adopt a decision not to disclose the details of the case. It is reported by Reuters , referring to court documents.
The position of Stone and lawyers is that the First Amendment on the right to freedom of speech allows him to publicly speak out about the case. According to her, Stone, in the hope of fair justice, has the right to “speak as he wants,” unless it constitutes a “clear and substantial danger.”
As another argument against the non-disclosure resolution, Stone and his defenders cited his poor fame in wide public circles. In this context, Stone compared himself to American actress and model Kim Kardashian.
“An example of how limited and narrow his public presence is is that Kim Kardashian has 59.5 million followers on Twitter. Roger Stone doesn’t have a Twitter account at all, and therefore he doesn’t have Twitter followers, ”Stone said. “In Instagram, Kim Kardashian has 126 million subscribers. Instagram Roger Stone has 39 thousand subscribers, “- he said.
Stone and his lawyers also expressed disagreement with the legality of the non-disclosure resolution regarding the case of former colleague Stone Paul Manafort (who led Trump’s campaign headquarters), which did not allow him and his advocates to make public statements.
Stone was detained in January of this year. He is charged with false testimony in the US Congress, obstructing and counterfeiting testimony during an investigation conducted by special prosecutor Robert Muller about Russia’s alleged interference in the 2016 US presidential election. The arrest of Stone announced office Muller. In total, he was charged with seven counts.
In addition, in October, The Wall Street Journal reported that representatives of the Muller team interrogated Stone about his connections with the WikiLeaks portal. According to the newspaper, Stone was trying to get compromising information about Hillary Clinton – Trump’s rival in the presidential election. Thus, it could be a potential leakage channel for information about the hacking of Clinton’s email that came to WikiLeaks, the publication wrote. Representatives of WikiLeaks stated that its founder had no connection with Stone.
Read also:
Leave a Reply
Comment
Name
Latest articles
Latest articles
Latest articles
Read previous post:
