MarketWatch, meet Barron's
MarketWatch is pleased to bring you Barron's. You can enjoy full access to Barron's coverage on MarketWatch with a Barron's subscription.
Share
Trump couldn’t beat Pelosi, but Powell has been another story
Trump has won the war against Fed Chairman Powell.
President Donald Trump hasn’t had a terribly good January. But he is closing the month with one victory.
After losing the shutdown battle against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the president can claim victory in another high-stakes confrontation.
He’s pushed back for months against Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, and the central bank more broadly, for raising interest rates.
On Wednesday came total surrender. The Fed is done hiking rates — even suggesting, after a hike in December — December — that the next move could be lower.
The Fed has started a process to taper the balance-sheet runoff by way of a special statement.
Powell was asked if the tightening cycle was over. “We’re going to know in hindsight,” he replied.
Now, OK, there were other factors besides Trump’s persistent complaints leading the Fed to its new stance. For one, the stock market SPX, -0.19% had a petulant sulk, dipping into correction territory.
Trump’s trade war has derailed the China growth story and the U.S. exporters who rely on the world’s second largest economy for revenue growth.
The Brits can’t seem to agree on an orderly path out of the European Union. The U.S. just had its longest government shutdown on record. Inflation readings, and measures of inflation expectations, have receded a bit.
So Powell can declare that he and his Fed colleagues are just, to borrow a phrase he employed a few times, “doing the right thing,” and there’s evidence to support him.
All that said, Powell could have looked at the same information and not budged so much. Remember the proclivity for his predecessors, Ben Bernanke and Janet Yellen, to use the word, “transitory.” The Fed doesn’t have to react to a single month’s turbulence.
Powell could have looked at all these “crosscurrents,” to use another word he employed, and also seen a U.S. economy that added 312,000 jobs in December and possibly some 200,000 more in January.
For sure, it would have been ill-advised for the Fed to hike interest rates here. But Powell was under no obligation to reverse course so thoroughly.
1600 Pennsylvania Ave. hasn’t rung up many victories, but it can claim a notch here.
Want this type of analysis sent to your inbox? Subscribe to MarketWatch's free MarketWatch First Takes newsletter. Sign up here.
More from MarketWatch
Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch's Washington bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter @MKTWgoldstein.
We Want to Hear from You
Join the conversation
Most Popular
Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only. Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
2,779.45
