After Colonoscopy, Trump’s Doctor Reports President Has “Beautiful, Powerfully-Built Butt”
Mr. Trump was also reportedly tweeting while under sedation which his physician called “superhuman”
Feb 10
President Trump thanking Dr. Sean Conley after the physician reported that POTUS had “a first-rate derriere.” (Credit: www.pbs.org)
After Donald Trump received a colonoscopy during his annual physical exam at Walter Reed Medical Center on Friday, his doctor reported that the president had “the most brawny, beautiful, powerfully-built butt I have ever seen.”
Mr. Trump indicating which thumb Dr. Conley had up his rectum during his colonoscopy on Friday,. (Credit: www.washingtonpost.com)
The excessively complimentary language used by Dr. Sean Conley, a Navy officer and the president’s personal physician, was being compared to a similarly obsequious report issued by Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, Mr. Trump’s sycophantic physician last year.
Dr. Conley was no less fawning in his assessment of the president’s health on Friday saying “I have never examined a finer human specimen than President Trump. Listening to his heartbeat and taking his blood pressure, I was nearly brought to tears wishing that all Americans could be as healthy as our president.”
Dr. Conley called this “the most burly, brawny, powerfully-built butt I have ever seen,” while others just call it “a great, big ass.” (Credit:mtonews.com)
Asked about Mr. Trump’s obesity, which was a point of mild concern in Dr. Jackson’s medical report last year, Dr. Conley laughed.
“Oh my gosh, no, not a problem at all,” he said, while holding up a photo of Donald Trump playing golf as a much younger man. “Anybody who has been around the president’s strapping six-foot, three-inch frame knows he is perfectly proportioned. In fact, I told him he should probably add a few more pounds, not lose any.”
One independent physician, Dr. Lucius Verity from John Hopkins University Hospital in Baltimore, after hearing Dr. Conley’s evaluation of the president’s health said, “That was clearly the most unctuous, falsely flattering, cringe-worthy medical assessment ever issued. For the record, Donald Trump is a fat, pasty, sleep-deprived, walking poster boy for everything our citizens should not do if they want to stay alive.”
*****
Thanks to all the many readers, fans, followers, and even my frenemies, for reading and commenting on my posts throughout the year as I continue my commitment to post every day, 7-days-a-week until the Orange Accident is out of our hair.
I read every comment. And I try to answer as many as possible.
Thank you.
I read. I write. I ride. I rest. I RESIST!
Follow
751
