Fact Checking AP’s Fact Check of Trump’s Immigration Stereotypes
Pomidor Quixote
Daily Stormer
February 10, 2019
The Associated Press did a fact-check on some of Trump’s immigration talking points that nicely portrays both the Jewish rhetoric often used while discussing these subjects in order to bypass the Goyim’s logical barrier and massage their emotions, and the schizophrenic nature of the contradictions and “arguments” spouted to achieve that.
President Donald Trump has long railed against immigration as a scourge on the economy and national security. He’s committed his administration to starting construction on a wall along the Mexican border to stop illegal immigration and asylum seekers, yet he reversed his past policy efforts on restricting legal immigration in this year’s State of the Union address.
…
Here are some fundamental myths about U.S. immigration and the economy:
MYTH: VAST NUMBERS OF IMMIGRANTS ARE POURING ACROSS U.S. BORDERS
REALITY: Not really.
The net flow of all migration into the United States in recent years — around 0.3 percent of the total population — is roughly at a long-standing historical average, according to an analysis of government data by Lyman Stone, an economist who studies demographic issues.
“It isn’t rock-bottom, but it isn’t that high either,” Stone said.
Economists say that restricting immigration would probably weaken economic growth. Given today’s lower birth rates in the United States, immigrants are increasingly needed to sustain a level of population growth for the U.S. economy to keep expanding.
Immigrants as a whole do make up a greater percentage of the total U.S. population than they did back in 1970, having grown from less than 5 percent of the population to more than 13 percent now.
But there’s a largely overlooked reason for that: Native-born Americans are having fewer children. The falling birth rate means that immigrants now make up a greater share of the population. In 2030, it’s projected that immigrants will become the primary driver for U.S. population growth, overtaking U.S. births.
On the one hand this fact-check tells you immigrants are “not really” pouring in vast numbers across the U.S. borders but on the other hand it also tells you that restricting those “not really” vast numbers of immigrants would probably weaken economic growth.
So which is it? Is immigration insignificant or is it significant?
They answer that question themselves, telling you that back in 1970 less than 5 percent of the U.S. population was composed of immigrants while now it’s 13 percent.
Do you see how they do this schizophrenic thing where they throw the facts while denying the facts are real and contradicting the facts so you subliminally accept the facts but think it’s no big deal? It’s classic Jewish rhetoric.
They then go on to explain how you actually do need “vast numbers” of immigrants because otherwise the American economy will die because the American birth rate keeps decreasing, which proves Trump’s point because even if “vast numbers” are not pouring in right now, “vast numbers” is what these pro-immigration people want.
Not wanting “vast numbers” now obviously means not wanting them in the future either.
MYTH: IMMIGRANTS ARE TAKING AWAY JOBS
REALITY: Many people have firsthand stories of losing a construction bid or an office job to a foreign worker. This happens in an economy as large and diverse as the United States’, where numerous people also lose jobs to native-born Americans.
But employment data suggest that the influx of immigrants helps increase overall hiring for the U.S. economy rather than erode job growth. The trend is clear in the government’s monthly jobs report. The data doesn’t distinguish between immigrants who are in the U.S. legally and illegally.
Nearly 64 percent of immigrants hold jobs, compared with roughly 60 percent of workers born in the United States, according to the Labor Department. Last year, immigrants accounted for roughly 40 percent of the 2.4 million jobs added.
Because a steady growth in the workforce helps the economy expand, economists say fewer immigrants would equal slower growth and fewer jobs. Falling birth rates and the retirement of the vast generation of baby boomers mean fewer people will flow into the workforce in the coming years — a drag on economic growth, which will, in turn, probably limit hiring.
Many economists have noted that adding immigrants would help maintain the flow of workers into the economy and support growth.
Who is the American economy for? Americans or foreigners?
They have this backwards. It’s not people who must serve the economy, it’s the economy that serves the people. They’re putting “the American economy” as some kind of deity that needs to be fed independently of the workers being American or not, which is a preposterous idea that only benefits globalists businessmen.
Do they think white Americans, which are the only real Americans, will be like “oh, okay, my country is 90% brown mystery mix now and my people are about to be wiped out but at least we saved the American economy!” in twenty or thirty years?
This is some kind of magic soil theory applied to the economy, where people don’t matter, but borders and industries do.
MYTH: IMMIGRANTS ARE UNEDUCATEDREALITY: The president has pledged to create an immigration system based on “merit,” thereby implying that the United States is a destination mainly of unskilled and uneducated workers.
“When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best,” Trump said at his 2015 campaign kickoff.
But today’s immigrants are more likely to be better educated than Americans. And the country has increasingly become a magnet for foreigners with doctorates and master’s degrees. Sixteen percent of all immigrants who arrived since 2000 hold an advanced degree, compared with 13 percent of the native-born population, according to the Census Bureau.
As of 2017, immigrants who have become citizens are almost twice as likely to hold a doctorate than are native-born U.S. citizens. Foreign-born citizens were more likely to have a doctorate at least as far back as 2000.
And Census records also show that the children of immigrants are more likely to graduate from college than are those of native-born parentage.
This doesn’t mean, of course, that all immigrants are better educated. Such are the disparities within the immigrant population that immigrants as a whole are less likely than native-born Americans to have completed high school. But the trend shows that the United States is increasingly a home for foreigners with graduate degrees and higher earnings.
They prove Trump right themselves.
See what I mean when I call what they do “schizophrenic”? They first say that “today’s immigrants are more likely to be better educated than Americans” but then tell you that immigrants “as a whole” are less likely than Americans to have completed high school.
MYTH: IMMIGRANTS ARE A DRAIN ON TAXPAYERSREALITY: The National Academy of Sciences explored the costs to taxpayers in 2016. It’s a tricky issue. The federal government runs a budget deficit, which means it spends more than it collects in taxes. This means that, on average, most Americans are a net drain on taxpayers.
All told, the costs imposed by immigrants are about the same as they are for native-born citizens.
“An immigrant and a native-born person with similar characteristics will likely have the same fiscal impact,” the report said.
But the report also examined spending by states and localities, which generally must maintain balanced budgets. Because state and local governments supply most of the money for public schools, immigrants often receive more in benefits than they pay in taxes.
That said, there are longer-term benefits from educating children, who grow into adults who get jobs, buy cars, buy houses and pay taxes and thereby contribute to economic growth. The National Academy found that the net cost from 2011 to 2013 for state and local budgets combined averaged $1,600 a year for a first-generation immigrant. But that figure became a net positive of $1,700 for the second generation and $1,300 for the third.
Immigrant households with children are generally more likely to use welfare programs like food assistance and Medicaid than native-born households, largely because the immigrant families have lower average incomes and larger families, according to the National Academy report.
This is like saying you should pay for the black neighbor’s children and let them live in your house because both your kids and them will cost you about the same. It’s another manifestation of this thing where they put Economy as a deity that must be fed and people as just interchangeable gears on its machinery.
They then mention the unproven “benefit” of educating foreign kids that will later “buy cars, buy houses, and pay taxes” further confirming what I’m saying about them viewing the economy as the point of origin instead of viewing people as the point of origin.
MYTH: ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION LEADS TO VIOLENT CRIMEREALITY: Trump frequently highlights violence by the “savage” MS-13 gang, saying in his speech Tuesday that it operates in at least 20 states and “they almost all come through our southern border.”
He invokes that gang, whose members come predominantly from El Salvador or are U.S. citizens descended from there, to portray immigrants as criminals. Widespread crime makes it harder, of course, to run a business, spend money and engage in the daily transactions that keep an economy humming.
But there is scant evidence that immigrants are perpetuating a crime wave. In a paper published last year, sociologists Michael Light and Ty Miller reviewed crime in every state and the District of Columbia from 1990 to 2014. They found that a rising number of immigrants in the country illegally corresponded with a drop, not a rise, in reported crime.
The authors acknowledged that it’s possible that people who came illegally are less likely to report a crime. But the authors also note that such immigrants overwhelmingly arrived to work, a trend that helps to reduce crime levels. Past research cited in their paper found that 93 percent of the men in the country illegally either have a job or are looking for one.
“At a minimum, the results of our study call into question claims that undocumented immigration increases violent crime,” their paper concluded. “If anything, the data suggest the opposite.”
Oh yeah, America was the most violent while it was the whitest.
Just like all those European countries with the highest crime rates of the world, America actually got a decrease in violence when it was flooded by the brown people responsible for the most pacifist and safe countries on Earth.
The solution to America’s violent crimes is more crime in the form of undocumented immigration —  something that used to mean “invasion.” But hey, things change, demographics change, your neighborhood changes, your people changes, and even you change. It’s to be expected that words and concepts would change too.
Related Articles
February 21, 2019
February 20, 2019
shekels plz goyim
 This is a reader funded site. It is the most censored publication in history.
Disclaimer
We here at the Daily Stormer are opposed to violence. We seek revolution through the education of the masses. When the information is available to the people, systemic change will be inevitable and unavoidable.
Anyone suggesting or promoting violence in the comments section will be immediately banned, permanently.
