Has Bill Murray Died at 81, Wanting to See ‘Americans United Under Trump’?
Another lame celebrity death hoax from the lamest of junk news sites.
Claim
Actor-comedian Bill Murray died at age 81 in February 2019, expressing a wish to see ‘Americans united under Trump.’
Rating
Origin
On 9 February 2019, the Conservative Tears website published an article reporting that actor-comedian Bill Murray had died at the age of 81, expressing that he “wanted to see America unite under President Trump”:
Bill Murray Dead at 81 – Wanted To See ‘Americans United Under Trump’
William Billington “Bill” Murray is dead this evening in his home in Winnetka, Wisconsin. Murray, who left public life a few years ago to pursue a more conservative lifestyle, found out he was dying about three months ago but decided not to make a big deal out of it.
According to his spokesman and lawyer, Art Tubolls, Murray left very simple instructions for his passing:
Bill wanted to see America unite under President Trump and come together to fight against all the things he’s fought against his entire career. When he wrote the movie Ghostbusters he used Slimer as an example of how feeding something causes dependence. Stripes was to teach the average American that anyone can be a hero if the timing is right.
None of this was true: at the time this report was published, Bill Murray was still very much alive and only 68 years old.  The report of his death was another fabrication by Conservative Tears, a site which is part of the America’s Last Line of Defense network of websites and Facebook pages that pump out a steady stream of inflammatory and politically divisive misinformation under the guise of proffering “satire.”
The very same site had published an equally false report of actor Henry Winkler ‘s supposed death a week earlier.
Sources
Eagleton, Flagg.   “Bill Murray Dead at 81 – Wanted to See ‘Americans United Under Trump.’”
    Conservative Tears.   9 February 2019.
Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without support from our audience. Producing reliable fact-checking and thorough investigative reporting requires significant resources. We pay writers, editors, web developers, and other staff who work tirelessly to provide you with an invaluable service: evidence-based, contextualized analysis of facts. Help us keep Snopes.com strong. Make a direct contribution today. Learn More .
Email
Subscribe
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Dear Reader,
Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without support from our audience. Producing reliable fact-checking and thorough investigative reporting requires significant resources. We pay writers, editors, web developers, and other staff who work tirelessly to provide you with an invaluable service: evidence-based, contextualized analysis of facts. Help us keep Snopes.com strong. Make a direct contribution today. Learn More .
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
