Don't have an account?
or Google to get started.
If you have an older Salon account, please
enter your username and password below:
Donald Trump delivers the State of the Union address in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives at the U.S. Capitol Building on February 5, 2019 in Washington, DC. (Getty/Doug Mills)
Trump looks increasingly weak as even his close allies reportedly shun his most drastic tactics
Trump is learning the hard way that there are no shortcuts when negotiating with Congress
This article originally appeared on AlterNet .
President Donald Trump still desperately wants the border wall. But after engineering a failed month-long  federal government shutdown  to try to force Congress into giving him $5.7 billion for it, he is running out of options.
On Thursday, Politico  reported  that as Trump met with Senate Appropriations Chairman Richard Shelby, R-AL., he seemed open to a bipartisan compromise on border security — and that he is increasingly turning away from the idea of declaring a national emergency to build his border wall because his GOP allies in the Senate have no appetite to help back him up on such an action:
Advertisement:
Though the White House has worked to prepare an emergency declaration invoking the president’s sweeping executive powers, several West Wing aides have warned that invoking it would alienate some conservatives who have otherwise been loyal to the White House. Lawmakers and activists on the right have been critical allies of the president on judicial nominations and have stressed that an emergency declaration could set a precedent for a future Democratic president to take far-reaching action on climate change or gun violence.
Trump has stopped musing as much about a national emergency, both publicly and privately. Asked if he’d been given marching orders or an ultimatum on a unilateral move by the president, Shelby said that didn’t happen.
“He didn’t say that. It was a very positive meeting,” said a beaming Shelby on Thursday. “He’s somewhat open, flexible.”
The White House has already  mapped out  how the executive order for an emergency declaration would work in theory, according to CNN. Trump would direct the Army Corps of Engineers to construct a border wall on seized private land in the “emergency” zone along the Southern border, and divert $7 billion from the Treasury, Pentagon, and Department of Homeland Security for the project, bypassing Congress altogether.
This strategy would have had several problems, however. First, Democrats could  sue  to block the emergency declaration. Second, the National Emergencies Act also  grants Democrats the power to vote it down in the House, which would require the Senate to vote to approve it within one month or it would automatically be canceled — and it is unlikely that even the Republican majority in the upper chamber would provide the votes to keep it going.
Without a national emergency, Trump has only two options. He can either shut down the government again, which given  polling  from the last time would end in disaster for him, or he can do what he appears poised to do now: accept a compromise that won’t give him his $5.7 billion wall.
Trump is learning the hard way that there are no shortcuts when negotiating with Congress and that even his own allies are ready for him to make a deal.
Matthew Chapman
Related Topics ------------------------------------------
registration for 1-Hour Access
beyond name and email address
•••
Sign up for our free newsletter
• • •
