Share this:
PUBLISHED:
| UPDATED:
February 10, 2019 at 7:46 am
DOVER, N.H. — Before a smallish crowd of about 350 people, U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren came to Dover hours after kicking off her presidential run in Lawrence, making her case as to why she is the best Democratic candidate to take on incumbent President Trump in 2020.
“I’m worried right now about democracy,” said Warren on Saturday at Dover City Hall. “The Republicans have been trying to undermine the right to vote for years and years and years … They plan to win by keeping American citizens from voting … doing all kind of ways, voter suppression, scare people away from the polls, gerrymandering so votes don’t count.”
The group on hand was mostly supportive, but some believe Warren has her work cut out for her.
“I think she did great but needs to tighten it up a bit,” Jocelyn Toffic of Dover told the Herald after the event. “I would like to hear more specifics. There’s a lot of generalized policies, but I would like to know what that actually means. How are you going to implement that? But she did a great job, I think, of not relying too heavily on hating Trump. I think that we’re bracing for a lot of Democrats to do that because it’s an easy play and gets people riled up but does not address any of the candidate’s actual policies.”
Warren will embark on a six-state organizing tour to drum up support for her campaign and take her message directly to early primary voters, flying to Iowa today, her second visit to the Hawkeye State since announcing her exploratory campaign on New Year’s Eve, and will then travel to South Carolina, Georgia, Nevada and California next week.
“I’m not taking a thin dime of money from any PAC” or any lobbyist money, the former Harvard law professor said. According to FEC filings as of Dec. 31, Warren still has a war chest of over $11 million left from her 2018 Senate re-election campaign account, which can be used for her White House run.
Railing against billionaires and lawmakers that accept lobbyist money, Warren said, “A minimum-wage support job in America, full time, will not keep a mama and a baby out of poverty … and the reason for that is a Washington today works for the rich and powerful instead of working families, and that’s why I’m in this fight.”
After being elected to the Senate in 2012, Warren quickly rose to the upper echelons of the Democratic Party, taking on Wall Street and helping to create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under President Barack Obama after the 2008 financial crisis.
“We need to root out corruption in Washington,” Warren said, calling for the “biggest corruption bill since Watergate … End lobbying as we know it … Anybody who wants to run for federal office should have to put their tax returns online.”
“Endless wars are not a way to honor our military or to make our country safer,” Warren said when asked about the Department of Veterans Affairs resources. “Part of it is about disorganization, but part of it is just plain old resources. You know, this idea that you can do more with less, it doesn’t work. The consequence of trying to do that means we treated many of our veterans shamefully.”
Geoff Diehl, who lost his Senate challenge against Warren, wrote in an op-ed for the Herald earlier this year : “Massachusetts, once again, has a front-row seat to the presidential primary undercard, now that Sen. Elizabeth Warren has, unsurprisingly, announced her official 2020 exploratory committee. This despite polling that indicates less than a third of Massachusetts voters want her to run for the White House. But you can expect an early exit and no chance of a title fight between Warren and Trump.”
Earlier this week, Warren faced fresh criticism over her Native American ancestry claims . Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said Saturday that Warren has been “exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career.” Parscale predicted voters “will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal.”
“This is our moment we are called to,” Warren said. “We come together, we dream big, we fight hard and we make the change America needs.”
Nicholas Conley of Dover said Warren “is my top candidate because she represents the progressive interests and has a solid record of being able to make bipartisan deals, which is really important.”
Sign up for email newsletters
Most Popular
