Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Trump: I could run both my business and be president 'perfectly'
President and businessman at the same time? Donald Trump thinks he can do it.
Post to Facebook
Trump: I could run both my business and be president 'perfectly' President and businessman at the same time? Donald Trump thinks he can do it. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/2ghvH62
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Trump: I could run both my business and be president 'perfectly'
Eliza Collins , USA TODAY Published 3:19 p.m. ET Nov. 22, 2016
President-elect Donald Trump walks through the lobby of "The New York Times" following a meeting on Nov. 22, 2016 in New York City.
 (Photo11: Spencer Platt, Getty Images)
President and businessman at the same time? Donald Trump thinks he can do it.
"In theory I could run my business perfectly and then run the country perfectly. There's never been a case like this,” the president-elect said in a meeting with The New York Times Tuesday, according to a reporter who attended .
Trump is right in that he is going into unprecedented territory. The businessman runs a multi-billion dollar empire. But running a business at the same time as ruling a country would raise some serious questions.
Trump previously said that if elected his children would run the business and after the election one of his lawyers said they would run it via a blind trust . But the transition team hasn’t provided any details about the process and in the interview Tuesday Trump didn’t seem to see the urgency in handing over the reins.
Trump says "in theory" he could continue signing checks at his company, but he is "phasing that out now" and giving to his kids.
"I'd assumed that you'd have to set up some type of trust or whatever and you don't," Trump says.But he adds "I would like to do something."
— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) November 22, 2016
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2ghvH62
Most Popular
