February 9, 2019 J.R.
Take one of his tweets from today, for example.
Naturally, liberals labeled Trump a “RACIST!!”
…(BOLD MINE)…
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Get it? Because Warren has claimed she’s Native American for decades!?
Trail of tears!?
Reactions:
Trump is a racist who very predictably and despicably always calls Senator Warren “Pocahontas.” He pokes fun at the brutal massacre at Wounded Knee and encourages other Republicans to follow suit with very racist attacks that hurt Native Americans who have suffered so much.
I try to never dignify this man’s tweets, but there is little doubt here that he uses “TRAIL” to evoke the genocidal Trail of Tears, and does so to land a political jab. Warren has taken justifiable heat on this issue—but he used the murders of Indigenous people as a punchline. https://t.co/LiyK2iruDF
There is no way that Donald Trump, who talks about how much he loves Andrew Jackson all the time, does not know about the Trail of Tears. There is no other interpretation of this tweet that I understand. He is making a joke about genocide against Native Americans. https://t.co/71DuX0mhy0
RACIST!!
Is this a pun about the Trail of Tears during which Native Americans were forcibly removed from their land and thousands died while White men looted their homes?
God, you're awful.
Thousands of Native Americans died on the ‘Trail of Tears’ — https://t.co/ji25xvAUzC
More on Warren 2020, via BBC :
She is the latest Democrat to launch a campaign to become the party’s presidential candidate.
Even before she had taken to the stage, President Donald Trump’s 2020 campaign team had responded calling her a fraud.
It is the first such intervention to target a possible Trump contender.
“The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle-class,” Mr Trump’s campaign manager Brad Pascale wrote.
He also accused her of “impersonating and disrespecting” Native Americans “to advance her professional career,” referring to a DNA test she took to prove her Cherokee ancestry. Mr Trump had long been calling her “fake Pocahontas”.
During her first trip to Iowa as a probable candidate, it didn’t go so well for the woman of 1/1024th Native American heritage.
About 5 minutes into her 30-minute appearance, the lights went noticeably dark and the microphone stopped working.
WATCH:
President Trump was asked if Warren has a shot against him in a hypothetical general election.
He only needed three words.
“…ask her psychiatrist.”
Pete Hegseth: Elizabeth Warren "says she’s in the fight all the way Mr. President, do you really think she believes she can win?"
President Donald Trump: "Well, that I don’t know. You’d have to ask her psychiatrist." pic.twitter.com/sOzH6JZFrk
Yeah, for real.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) spoke at American University Washington College of Law in a speech billed as foreign policy-focused; however, it included criticism of President Donald Trump and his policies and claimed he promotes white nationalism and encourages “domestic right-wing terrorism.”
Warren: “He cozies up to white nationalists. He undermines the free press and incites violence against journalists.”
“The 2016 election provided a stark reminder that we must remain vigilant and fight for our democracy every single day,” Warren said. “That starts with protecting our elections and democratic processes, and making it clear that there will be severe consequences for those – foreign or domestic – who meddle, hack, or undermine them.”
“It means ensuring a meaningful opportunity for every American citizen to vote. And it means fighting for equal justice and protection under the law for all.”
“It also requires us to speak out against hateful rhetoric that fuels domestic terrorism of all kinds, whether in San Bernadino or Charleston, Orlando or Charlottesville, Fort Hood or Pittsburgh. We must speak plainly about all of these incidents.”
“Just like the hateful terrorism of Al Qaeda and ISIS, domestic right-wing terrorism is completely incompatible with our American values.”
“Let’s start with a serious problem: Around the world, democracy is under assault. Authoritarian governments are gaining power.”
“Right-wing demagogues are gaining strength. Movements toward openness and pluralism have stalled and begun to reverse.”
“Inequality is rapidly growing, transforming rule by-the-people into rule by-wealthy-elites.“
You Might Like
