Advertisement
Culture
Stephen King Trolls Trump — Kim Jong Un Is Using Art Of War Against Trump
King is still angry over being blocked by Pres. Trump on Twitter
Author and Trump-hater Stephen King have been trying to bait Pres. Trump into a back and forth for the last couple of years and it’s not working.
King has called out Pres. Trump’s tweets along with his policies to help Make America better and more prosperous. Now, the strange and weird moviemaker is trolling the president calling North Korea’s leader smarter than our Commander-in-chief.
Pres. Trump is working on a second meeting with the NK leader to cut their nuclear program out permanently and thus being welcomed into the world of nations where Jong-Un’s economy could flourish.
More from Wayne Dupree
North Korea has been living in the past for decades. Someone once told me if you travel there, you would think you were living int he late 50s, early 60s.
King thinks Jong-Un is using Chinese philosopher and general Sun Tzu to best Trump.
Unlike Donald Trump, who doesn't read, Kim Jong-un knows The Art of War, by Sun Tzu: "Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance."
Advertisement
Stephen King has something to say about the relationship between Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump. In a recent  tweet , the prolific author drew a line from Chinese philosopher and general Sun Tzu to offer a little insight into the upcoming meeting between the two leaders, and it isn’t good for the president.
The Outsider author seems to believe that Kim has the drop on Trump and he’s using the ancient military manual as evidence for his claim.
“Unlike Donald Trump, who doesn’t read, Kim Jong-un knows The Art of War, by Sun Tzu: ‘Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance,’” he wrote.
The message is an apparent response to a recent tweet from Donald Trump in which he speaks about the upcoming meeting with the chairman. In it, he says that his representatives met with Kim to coordinate a second summit.
Original story via Inquisitr
My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second Summit with Kim Jong Un. It will take place in Hanoi, Vietnam, on February 27 & 28. I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim & advancing the cause of peace!
Advertisement
North Korea, under the leadership of Kim Jong Un, will become a great Economic Powerhouse. He may surprise some but he won’t surprise me, because I have gotten to know him & fully understand how capable he is. North Korea will become a different kind of Rocket – an Economic one!
Advertisement
King must be bored or looking for inspiration for his next novel. Most of you will agree with me that King should write another weird book and leave his twisted opinion to film making and writing books.
King is still angry over being blocked by Pres. Trump on Twitter, so he’s lashing out with tantrum tweets hoping that someone from the White House views the trolling and addresses it.
If you find inaccurate information within this article, please use the contact form to alert us immediately.
 
Having problems finding a source for real news links in real time, click on Whatfinger.com . Visit, bookmark and share this resource and then tell your friends and family.
Previous Article
Leave a Comment
Join Wayne's eNewsletter!
Add your email address below to be kept up to date with the latest from Wayne Dupree.
Email*
1 day ago
