Share Article:
It goes without saying that real-estate mogul/TV personality Donald J. Trump is a huge role-model for lots of folks, and it’s not for nothing. The Apprentice host has provided low income housing for hundreds of tenants, rich and poor alike. He’s an outspoken critic of the carceral state, calling out unfair indictments on more than one occasion and hiring dozens of past and future felons in high ranking positions in his enterprises. All of this cements his status as our #WokeKing. Or does it?
We’ve been digging through some of Trump’s old tweets and, you know what? Maybe he’s not as great as people think.
He’s ableist
First of all he’s pretty fucking ableist. Don’t believe me? Take a look at this tweet
Why are we sending thousands of ill-trained soldiers into Ebola infested areas of Africa! Bring the plague back to U.S.? Obama is so stupid.
Sorry, honey. “Stupid” is an ableist term. Denigrating someone’s value due to their cognitive abilities? You’d think a multi-millionaire like Trump should be able to buy some class but nope. Thank u, next!
He’s tone deaf on race
Sure he hired Omarosa when no one else dared too. But it sounds like Trump isn’t all that aware when it comes to race after all.
It is amazing how often I am right, only to be criticized by the media. Illegal immigration, take the oil, build the wall, Muslims, NATO!
It’s almost blink-and-you’ll-miss-it but if you look carefully you can see that he seems to support a wall across our southern border. Maybe he doesn’t know about the origins of the phrase “build the wall” but it’s widely seen as a racist term. Hey, Trump, ignorance is no excuse to go spouting potentially troubling phrases. Read a book before you put your foot in your mouth again.
He’s shows signs of sexism
Ugh. After women have worked so hard to gain acceptance in the workplace, you’d think Donald Trump of all people should be more aware of potentially sexist behavior and how to avoid them. But this Tweet shows you just can’t trust people.
Some day, when things calm down, I'll tell the real story of @JoeNBC and his very insecure long-time girlfriend, @morningmika . Two clowns!
You know, you’d think a millionaire businessman like Trump should be aware that “clown” has historically been used as a slut-shaming slur against woman choosing to assert their femininity through makeup. But here he goes calling feminist icon Mika Brzezinski a cl*wn. Oof.
He doesn’t know how to think before he Tweets
Can you believe he actually sent out this tweet and didn’t ONCE stop to think “Hmmm, maybe I should reconsider?”:
It's really cold outside, they are calling it a major freeze, weeks ahead of normal. Man, we could use a big fat dose of global warming!
I just can’t believe how incredibly fatphobic he’s being. Hey, Mr. Trump. Lots of kids look up to you. I know the last thing you want is to contribute to young girl’s poor body image issues. Can you imagine if Tiffany heard you talking like this? You must know another word for large instead of the F-word. Think about that for next time, if we even give you chance after all this.
He’s buddy-buddy with associates of criminals
Money can’t buy a better class of friends. Check this out:
Now the name might not mean anything to you but I’ve been doing some digging and this Michael Cohen seems like bad news. He’s very recently been arrested for working for an individual who reportedly told him to lie to the FBI. Now that’s a big freaking deal. Come on Trump. As a solidly upper-middle class figure you should be able to find a better group of people to hang out with than that!
Ableism. Fat Shaming. If you look closely, he even appears to support the border wall. In summary, Donald Trump? CANCELLED.
Hard Times Podcast Network & Patreon
Our new podcast network. Ad free episodes for patrons.
Get the Hard Times in Your Inbox!
Sign up now to get exclusive Hard Times content, plus 20% off our store!
Subscribe
Sponsored Post
Hard Times Podcast Network
By Dan Rice
By Nick Ortolani
Opinion
By Dan Rice on February 7, 2019
Hey, remember three weeks ago when we got into that argument about Socialism? You said that I didn’t have any, as you called it, “empirical data” to back up “wild...
By Dan Rice on February 1, 2019
Let me just say right off the bat that yes, I am aware that television and reality are two different things (except for the news which is like sort of...
By Dan Rice on January 31, 2019
Don’t be such a baby. This is totally safe! My cousin taught me how to do stick n’ poke and she does it all the time! All we need to...
By Dan Kozuh on January 21, 2019
Are all cops bastards? Yes. We know this because it’s been proven by punk’s top researchers. The same researchers who helped answer important questions like, ‘Do They Owe Us a...
Punk News Comin' Your Way!
