Kamala Harris, the Democratic presidential hopeful, isn’t getting any help from her ex-lover, former San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown. The 84-year-old just dropped a new bombshell on the Harris campaign, divulging intimate details about what transpired between them. “I’ll have to leave the country if she wins,” says Brown after disclosing new insights into Harris’ past. You don’t want to miss this.
Willie Brown is an old Democratic operative, and he is using Kamala Harris’ presidential run as a means to get back in the limelight. Who can blame him? By all accounts, the California Senator used Brown to launch her political career, and sometimes karma does catch up to people like Harris.
The former mayor says he thought he was helping his ex-lover by posting his column titled, “Sure, I dated Kamala Harris. So what?” Brown feigns shock that his post didn’t put the rumor mill to bed once and for all. “I thought that little item would put the issue to rest. Not quite,” Brown writes.
Yet, he is claiming the affair was no big deal and would have been “just a chuckle” among “us locals.” Hardly. Then, the slimy Brown reveals, “Did I say that besides me helping her, she helped me? I honestly don’t think I would have made it through my first grueling run for mayor without her smarts and support.”
“Six months ago, it would have been just a chuckle among us locals,” adds Brown, referring to his affair with Harris. Let’s recall Brown was married and having an affair with the much younger Harris during his run for mayor of San Francisco. When he won, Harris was on stage right next to him and gave him a hat that said “Da Mayor.” His wife was off to the side.
“She loved me, and I loved me. It was a perfect relationship,” Brown says. “Now she’s happily married to a great guy. And if she gets elected, I’ll probably have to leave the country,” the 84-year-old concludes. Now, why would he have to leave the country?
It’s common knowledge now that a 29-year-old Harris took up with the married 60-year-old Brown who was then the up and coming Democratic rising star in San Francisco. The disgusting truth of how Brown set Harris up with lucrative jobs is going to come back and bite her now. Brown is ready to spill the beans on Kamala Harris, that’s why he says he may have to leave the country if she wins.
Harris slept with Brown for one reason; she used the corrupt San Francisco mayor to launch her rise to power. Daily Caller reports, “As Brown’s time as speaker drew to a close in 1994, he named Harris to the California Medical Assistance Commission, a job that came with a $72,000 annual salary. Brown had previously appointed her to the state Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board.”
She “was described by several people at the Capitol as Brown’s girlfriend,” the Los Angeles Times reported at the time. Although that job paid nearly $98,000, Harris’ term was set to expire in five weeks when Brown tapped her for the Medical Assistance Commission slot. That body met only monthly, and the $72,000 position was not considered a full-time job. But that’s not all.
Brown is now criticizing Kamala’s campaign style:
That is not accurate, Nick — Senator Kamala Harris slept her way to the top.
Here we see her with flamboyant retired Mayor, Willie Brown, (married at the time) hanging with his lover, Ms. Harris.
"CROOKS IN POWER – FAR TOO LONG" pic.twitter.com/RshB4KOG4T
— (o‿o) {нєℓℓσ (@TiaCarra) August 12, 2018
The first misstep came during her televised town meeting in Iowa. She was terrific for the first three-quarters of the show, connecting with the audience both in the hall and those of us at home.
In the final quarter, however, her focus seemed to fade — and that’s when she stepped in it, flippantly dismissing the concerns of people who like their private health insurance and aren’t enthusiastic about replacing it with government-run Medicare for All.
“Her ‘let’s move on‘ line sounded a lot like, ‘Get over it.‘ It was a slip that instantly went national,” said Brown. Of course, he is referring to Barack Obama’s comment “elections have consequences, get over it.”
Regardless, Willie Brown is shaping up to not only be a thorn in Kamala’s side from the past, but also from the present. We bet he has a ton of juicy tidbits that he could drop on her campaign. And even if the mainstream media is giving their Democratic darling a pass and refusing to vet her properly, you can count on the president’s campaign to do their homework. Willie Brown is a slimeball, that’s a fact.
Yet, the slimeball from San Francisco might just be a source of never-ending fodder that will tank the Harris campaign. And for Americans who don’t want to see this country decline into Socialism, in a strange way, we may owe Willie Brown our thanks.
Related Items:
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Post navigation
To Top
