Supported by
Feb. 10, 2019
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.
Image
CreditDrew Angerer/Getty Images
1. Virginia’s lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, above, has refused to resign in the face of sexual assault allegations, giving Democrats an excruciating choice : whether to impeach a black leader at a moment when the state’s two other top leaders, both white, are also resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist behavior.
A second woman said on Friday that Mr. Fairfax had sexually assaulted her , echoing an accusation made earlier in the week. Both accusations came within a few days of Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring acknowledging that they wore blackface as young men. How Virginia Democrats handle these three state officials — who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash after President Trump’s election — will reverberate beyond the state’s borders.
____
CreditErin Schaff for The New York Times
2. President Trump delivered a message of unity on Tuesday night during his second State of the Union address — but continued to push the hard-line immigration policies that have divided the capital and the nation. We checked the facts on some of Mr. Trump’s remarks.
____
CreditSpencer Platt/Getty Images
3. Pope Francis acknowledged that priests and bishops in the Roman Catholic Church have sexually abused nuns , the first time he has publicly addressed the issue. Above, a nun outside Vatican City in August.
A recent article in a Vatican magazine mentioned nuns having abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. “It’s true,” the pope replied when he was asked to comment on Tuesday. “There are priests and bishops who have done that.”
Advocates for abused nuns were relieved that Francis had finally put the issue on the church’s radar. But they also noted that this problem has existed for years, and that the pope did not seem to suggest there would be a speedy solution.
____
CreditDoug Mills/The New York Times
4. In a surprise vote, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., above, joined the Supreme Court’s liberal wing in a 5-to-4 decision blocking a Louisiana law that could have severely restricted abortion in the state.
Chief Justice Roberts’s vote shows that while his general approach is to lean right, he is also a guardian of his court’s legitimacy and wants to make modest and deliberate moves , our Supreme Court reporter writes.
____
CreditTom Brenner for The New York Times
5. Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, above, told the House Judiciary Committee on Friday that he had never used his position to provide inside information about the Russia investigation to President Trump or his proxies.
During a somewhat contentious oversight hearing , he also said he had “not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation.” But he refused to discuss his conversations with Mr. Trump or why he recently said the special counsel’s inquiry would soon wrap up.
____
CreditPete Marovich for The New York Times
6. Liberal Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, above, introduced their “Green New Deal” on Thursday with a sweeping resolution that would combat climate change, create jobs and counter President Trump’s challenge to core party values.
The resolution calls on the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. While it is unlikely to get far, some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation.
____
CreditJim Watson/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
7. Jeff Bezos, above, accused the company behind The National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail,” writing that the company threatened to publish graphic photos of him if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his extramarital affair was not politically motivated.
“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” wrote Mr. Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post. You can read excerpts from his blog post here .
____
CreditDouglas Magno/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
8. A deluge of toxic mud stretched for five miles, crushing homes, offices and people — more than 150 of them were killed when a mining dam collapsed in Brazil in January.
The tragedy in the town of Brumadinho was hardly a surprise, experts told us. There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.
____
CreditPhotographs by Reuters
9. The Grammy Awards, airing Sunday night on CBS, are supposed to be music’s biggest party. But as the show tries to stay culturally relevant while also balancing the demands of race and gender representation, it may be impossible to please everybody at once , our music reporter writes.
Ariana Grande and Cardi B, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, recently released music videos in which they celebrated outrageous wealth and women’s bodies — and there’s hardly a man in sight. This week’s In Her Words, our gender newsletter, takes a glimpse at the history of female artists flexing their independence .
____
Mothers in Japan, like Yoshiko Nishimasa, above, are shouldering most of the work at home, including daily preschool paperwork, with little help from fathers; thousands of agricultural families descend on Denver for a 16-day celebration of Western heritage; and 63 years ago, a retired actor found a Greenwich Village apartment for $90 a month and never left.
Have a great week.
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here .
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com .
Advertisement
