Fresh off her last national embarrassment, in which she tried to rig the Democratic primaries in favor of her best girl Hillary Clinton and wound up getting fired from the DNC in the process, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz is ready to hit the big time again. This time, she’s telling the world that she’ll “most definitely” lead a court challenge against President Trump if he attempts to declare a national emergency and build the wall with pre-existing Pentagon funds.
In an interview with CNN, Wasserman Schultz said, “There’s not a national emergency that would meet the test that would allow for the president to make such a declaration in this case. If you look at border crossings and apprehensions at the border, we have border crossings that are about a fifth of where they were going back to 2000.”
Yes, well, that says it all, really. This has been a national emergency in the making for roughly half a century. It’s about time we had a president with the cojones to step up and do something about it. No surprise that Democrats (and even a handful of Republicans) want to stop him by any means necessary.
“We have the lowest amount of apprehensions that we have had in four decades. So the president is just not telling the truth when it comes to there being a case to be made for a national emergency to be declared,” she said. “And then what also is important is that the president doesn’t have the power of the purse. He can’t just decide that he doesn’t like the way Congress has appropriated the funds in an appropriations act that has been signed into law. So because we are not doing what he wants, he thinks he can just declare a national emergency and take the money from military construction projects that are already under funded.”
Well, actually, there are U.S. statutes that give him exactly that authority, and the White House is quite certain that they’ve reviewed the options on the table to a high degree of legal confidence. We don’t doubt for a minute that Democrats will take this fight to the courts, and we will cheer them on as they do so. The more effort they put into STOPPING Trump from protecting the border, the clearer they make it for every American voter. We’ll know exactly where they stand when it comes time to vote in 2020.
What do you think?
cleaning up the corruption in her own party
instead of backstabbing the President.
President Trump is fighting to keep us free
from Socialism…and anyone who so strongly
opposes him it is easy to see where their loyalties
lie…
is your right….but first choose to be an American.
THAT IS YOUR GIFT FROM GOD…PROTECT IT.
SO MANY GAVE SO MUCH….SO THAT YOU CAN
BE FREE…CHERISH THAT GIFT.
SUPPORT PRESIDENT TRUMP NOW…AND IN 2020.
Disagree!  ANY legal action is expensive, so as long as it is funded from her own pocket or the DNC pocket – then she has that right!  But now if she somehow used state or federal tax payer money – then she has broken the law!
With the last round of stupidity she did during the election, maybe she will be that stupid again and will end up in a place with bars on the windows!
and they will teach her a lesson about crime and protection!
I am sure MS-13 would love to thank her for her stupidity!!!!
I bet she has a wall around her property!
*
*
*
*
*
*
Let’s hope the Congress comes to their senses and
ONLY THEN WILL THESE TRUMP-HATERS SEE THAT THE WALLS DO WORK….
Good luck there DWS. You need to be very thankful it’s not yet acceptable to be sued for being ugly.
I don’t suppose she is trying to buy favor with her dimwit buds that learned she was dumb enough to get caught throwing an election for Killary. Don’t get me wrong, they’re not angry about her criminal behavior, they’re pissed that she was caught.
I still remember her indignant arrogance as she threatened one of the Capital Police.
I vote to buy her a one way ticket to Venezuela.
Their group likely has many terrorists embedded in it!
They strain the nation’s resources!
They strain & ROB the taxpayers’ FUNDS!
ON & ON!
SOMEONE THAT CAN DO BASIC ARITHMETIC, PLEASE DO THE MATH!!!!
BUILD THE WALL…
It is OUR “WE THE PEOPLE’S ” WALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
7  × 
 =  21
Loading…
Forgot your password?
Enter your account data and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Username or Email Address
