Viva Paper Towels
By Caroline Hallemann
Nov 26, 2018
Getty ImagesChip Somodevilla
Melania Trump clearly isn't having a blue Christmas this year. The First Lady just revealed this year's White House holiday decorations, which feature a decidedly red color palette. Most striking, perhaps, are the crimson topiary trees (pictured above), which currently line the east colonnade.
The People’s House @WhiteHouse is ready to celebrate Christmas and the holiday season! pic.twitter.com/oejKW3mC15
Generally speaking, the rest of the decor is a bit more subdued, and centers around the theme "American Treasures," which, per a White House statement, recognizes this country's "unique heritage."
"This is a joyous time of year when we decorate the White House for the Christmas Season,” the First Lady said in the statement.
"Our theme honors the heart and spirit of the American people. Thank you to the many volunteers and staff who worked hard to decorate the halls of the People’s House in Christmas cheer. On behalf of my family, we wish everyone a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year."
Other decorations include gingerbread replicas of the Capitol, the Lincoln Memorial, the Jefferson Memorial, Washington Monument, and the White House, which are currently on display in the State Dining Room, as well as a number of Christmas trees set up throughout the White House, some which feature nods to the First Lady's "Be Best" campaign.
Notably the "official" White House Christmas Tree is on display in the Blue Room. At 18-feet-tall, the Fraser Fir from North Carolina is decorated with over 500 feet of blue velvet ribbon embroidered in gold with each state and territory's name.
Melania and her team have reportedly been working on these decorations for months. See a few additional photos of the seasonal decor below:
Ornaments highlighting Melania’s Be Best campaign.
Getty ImagesNICHOLAS KAMM
Getty ImagesChip Somodevilla
Holiday decorations celebrating symbols such as the bald eagle and the oak tree on display in the State Dining Room.
Getty ImagesChip Somodevilla
Getty ImagesChip Somodevilla
Getty ImagesChip Somodevilla
©2019 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
