WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's favorability with U.S. adults is unchanged from last November -- remaining at a record low (36%).
These results, from a Sept. 4-12 Gallup poll, confirm that Clinton's image remains in a rut nearly two years after she lost the presidential contest in 2016. Her favorable rating is down seven percentage points from where it stood on the eve of the election.
Two key trends would suggest that Clinton should become more popular, not less, after the 2016 presidential election. The first is specific to Clinton. While opinions of Clinton have varied over her long time in the public limelight, she has tended to be quite popular when she is no longer seen as a purely political figure. When her husband, former President Bill Clinton, faced impeachment in 1998, for instance, Hillary Clinton's favorable rating rose to a record high of 67%. Clinton was also generally well-liked over the course of her 2009-2013 tenure as secretary of state.
By contrast, Clinton's favorable rating fell when she sought the presidency in 2008 and 2016, particularly after allegations about her improper handling of classified emails were revealed in summer 2015.
Clinton's 2016 loss has largely thrust her off the political stage, though she released a memoir of the campaign last year and has made periodic public appearances. As such, past evidence seems to suggest that her favorable rating should rise. Furthermore, this would be in line with a more general trend, whereby many losing presidential candidates see their popularity rise after the election.
Instead, opinion about Clinton remains about as sharply divided along political lines now as it was just before the 2016 election. Virtually no Republicans see her favorably (4%), and less than a third of independents have positive feelings about Clinton.
To the extent that Clinton's image has shifted with any of the major political groups, it is among Democrats. Clinton's favorable rating among Democrats fell 11 points to 76% just after the election; it has not improved significantly in the ensuing months, and currently stands at 77%.
Trump's favorability, at 41% in this poll, also remains low, in line with past readings during his presidency. And, unlike his 2016 opponent, Trump has become somewhat more popular since the presidential election than on the eve of it, largely because of more positive opinions among his fellow Republicans after he won.
Just prior to the election, when many expected Trump to lose the contest against Clinton, about seven in 10 Republicans (71%) said they had a favorable opinion of Trump. In the poll immediately after the election, Trump's favorable rating with the GOP rose to 83%; it stands at 88% now.
Just as Clinton's defeat may have caused some Democrats to reconsider their views on her, the shine of victory likely encouraged some Republicans to upgrade their opinion of Trump. Whether rank-and-file members of the GOP will continue to think positively of Trump should he lead the party to big mid-term losses is another question.
Explore President Trump's approval ratings and compare them with those of past presidents in the Gallup Presidential Job Approval Center .
Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted Sept. 4-12, 2018, with a random sample of 1,035 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. For results based on the total sample of national adults, the margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for weighting.
Each sample of national adults includes a minimum quota of 70% cellphone respondents and 30% landline respondents, with additional minimum quotas by time zone within region. Landline and cellular telephone numbers are selected using random-digit-dial methods.
Related Topics Include:
Never miss our latest insights.
September 28, 2018
Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A
Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ, Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer, Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc.
