February 7, 2019
Bakker: Trump’s Skin Tone Caused By ‘Holy Spirit Flowing Through Him’
Donald Trump
By Piper Blackmun
Former televangelist Jim Bakker has come up with a far-out reason for President Donald Trump’s orange skin tone.
Last week, the White House press office claimed the president’s skin tone was due to “good genes.”
Bakker had a similar line of thinking.
“Trump has been blessed by God, his skin color is merely the holy spirit flowing through him,” said Bakker on his YouTube show.
As crazy as Bakker’s view is, it’s pretty common among Evangelical Christians.
“I think God calls all of us to fill different roles at different times and I think that he wanted Donald Trump to become president, and that’s why he’s there,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network. “I think he has done a tremendous job in supporting a lot of the things that people of faith really care about.”
Paula White, a money-grubbing prosperity preacher, also backs this view. (White also lives in one of Trump’s penthouses and is referred to as his “spiritual adviser.”)
She also praised all the things Trump has done for the Christian community.
“In fact, the President’s extraordinary commitment to religious liberty has been obvious since the very beginning of his presidency — just two weeks after his inauguration, Donald Trump attended the National Prayer Breakfast where he stressed the importance of preserving and cherishing religious values. The President is expected to be with us in prayer at this year’s breakfast on Thursday,” said White.
However, some Christians are disgusted that fundamentalists have thrown their weight behind Trump, a thrice-married, former casino owner, who’s been accused of sexually assaulting several women.
“Evangelicals who rationalize Donald Trump’s misbehavior are sacrificing their moral authority at the altar of politics. Before the election, I warned my fellow evangelicals to not vote for Trump, that associating with a person of Trump’s character would damage us,” said Napp Nazworth in a Christian Post article.
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
