Search
Home Latest News 2019 Trump Unbelievably Gloats About National Enquirer’s Takedown Of ‘Jeff Bozo’s’ Marriage
In a jaw-dropping tweet President Donald Trump touted coverage by an unidentified Washington Post “competitor” — though clearly the National Enquirer — of the story behind the breakup of Amazon  chief executive  Jeff Bezos ’ marriage. But Trump called him “Jeff Bozo.”
The dig on Sunday was particularly astonishing because National Enquirer chief executive David Pecker allegedly arranged to pay porn star Stormy Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal to “catch and kill” their stories about their alleged affairs with Trump. The hush money, allegedly directed by Trump and provided through his former personal attorney Michael Cohen , is being investigated as a possible unreported and illegal campaign contribution.
The Enquirer’s parent company, American Media, admitted to federal prosecutors that it had paid McDougal $150,000 to “suppress” her story with the express intention of boosting Trump’s chances to win the presidency . Pecker has been given immunity to cooperate with investigators.
Bezos, who owns The Washington Post, and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, announced in a statement Wednesday that they had decided to divorce after 25 years of marriage . The Enquirer later that day published a story online about Bezos’ alleged relationship with former Fox TV personality Laura Sanchez and followed up with a longer print version of a piece it touted as a major investigative article.
On Thursday, Trump seemed almost sensitive about the situation, and told reporters of Bezos and the divorce: “I wish him luck. It’s gonna be a beauty.” 
Mapify360 - A Complete Local Marketing Platform to find you  unclaimed and un-optimized local business leads anywhere in the world!
New Software Turns Visitors Into Customers By ‘Ethically Stealing’ Their Attention With This Profitable Plugin With Developers Rights (without bonus)
But his tone was different Sunday as he gloated about the Enquirer’s coverage of Bezos. He had nothing to say about the Enquirer’s total miss on the Daniels — and McDougal — story. 
The irony was not lost on Twitter.
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
Recommended
eLasso - Developers Install eLasso on your clients sites and charge $97-197/ month.
Stock Image Firesale 2.0 Downsell - Personal Rights Stock image  Firesale 2.0 Downsell pack Comes with Personal Use. That means you can use these images where you want
TigerPress Volume 4 Premium one of a kind wordpress themes that do all the onpage seo for you including image seo, with TigerPress themes you can also generate an unlimited amount of geo targeted landing pages in any language.
Video Chief Club (by) Profit $500 - $1,000 Per Video By Leveraging One of The Largest Library of Pre-Made Videos, Script Templates, VoiceOver Templates And More…Instantly Access Over 600 High-Converting Templates Spread Across More Than A Dozen Of The Hottest Niches!
Video Spin Blaster Pro World's fastest Video Creator with Text To Speech support
Traffic Jeet 4 Elite Traffic Jeet 4 is the most powerful video SEO suite ever invented. Get on the top of YouTube and drive endless free traffic to your business sites with this ultra powerful toolset that helps you master video SEO.
ShopMozo - Enterprise DEAD SIMPLE 1-click cloud based Affiliate Store builder that uses the Power of Videos, SEO and Social Media to Automatically Add Affiliate Products from top E-Commerce giants
Social Share Suite (Developer License) Are you struggling to create high-quality and rich-content website? With this brand new WP theme, now you can build rich-content website without creating any single of content... Build viral niche sites, drive free traffic, build list, and make money on c
Softmailer - Design Pack Design Pack is OTO1 for Softmailer containing additional templates for Landing pages and Emails
Titans of Zoo Lost and Confused Newbie gets tired of not Making Money Online... "Steal The Exact 7 Step System That Helped him to Go From Chasing Shiny Objects To FINALLY Launching a 6 Figure Digital Empire ...Completely From Scratch!
Ez Video Ranks Version 2.0 -Executive Track 1000 Videos Automatically check ranking for your keywords you have optimized in your video titles. Simple as adding your channel URL, and pressing start. Executive package gives you the ability to track 1000  videos, in google, google video, and youtube.
Fruitphul Vault Vault of our best outsourcers, freelancers, and productivity resources.
Birthday Firesale (Limited Time) Save 50-80% Off My Best Products + Buy 1 Get 1 FREE!
Proven Profit Booster Package B The perfect upgrade to the Proven Profit Package from the Real Guys.
EZ Video Creator - Monthly Club - Starting Month #6 Create your own amazing videos using our massive library and easy cloud-based editing program. Get more videos each month!
Viral Reach Elite Monthly Viral Reach is a Facebook marketing 100% automation tool. Once you type in the keyword Viral Reach will get you content from high-authority and non-spammy sources for maximum organic reach and post it on its own.  Get the full variety of content including t
Petes WP Blog Creator Create Unlimited Unique Custom Highly ranking Wordpress Blogs in 5 easy steps. These blogs rank extremely well in Local SEO easily dominating entire regions.
Traffic Victory Simple method to generating first page rankings and free traffic in any niche as a total newbie.
NativizePro Unlimited Sites Nativizepro Helps You Create Beautiful, Attention Grabbing Pop Ups And Popovers And Show Targeted Ads And Offers On Specific Posts And Pages.
Confessions Of The Rainmakers [Complete Transcripts+Bonuses] Get Instant Access to The Ultimate Business Secrets Of 9 Top Internet Marketers [And How To Use Those Secrets To Explode Your Own Business Too!]
EZ Video Creator - Monthly Club - Starting Month #5 Create your own amazing videos using our massive library and easy cloud-based editing program. Get more videos each month!
AutoPlay Ninja - Developers License Finally auto play your videos again on any browser with a click of a button.
=
=
Recommended
WP SocialContact Unlimited Sites License Contact Forms are DEAD - change the way visitors contact you and get 300% more leads, sales and income from your sites.
EasyStores - DFY - 20 Sites Revolutionary New Self-Updating Store Builder Using New "LIVE" Technology And Integrated With Our Award Winning Traffic Software
Instazon Pro Monthly The Instazon Pro upgrade supports unlimited sites. This version lets you implement WP AMZ Store and WP ProdRecommender on as many sites as you want. Add a store in any niche at any time you want and add to the profits.  Moreover you get the capability to
Invanto Agency (Yearly) Invanto Agency license allows you to build sites for your clients, and let them login from your own domain to manage their sites.
SociBot PLATINUM 'PRO' - Discount SociBot is an all in one Facebook traffic and commission getting software that will help you to grow your business on autopilot, even whilst your asleep!
YouTube Marketing 2018 Success Kit Downsell Get this Up-to-date "YouTube Marketing 2018 Success Kit" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
Sitecontact Pro Yearly Sitecontact Pro Version lets you connect to an unlimited number of pages and create an ever expanding leads lists for your business. Again you also get unlimited subscribers per list which will let you unlock the true potential of your market.   With this
Live Vid Ranker OTO 4 - Lead Gen Add-On Lead Gen Software Makes It Easy To Get Paid $500+ By Local Businesses On Autopilot Without Any Cold Calling
Social Suite Poster (Developer License) Are you struggling to create high-quality and rich-content website? With this brand new WP theme, now you can build rich-content website without creating any single of content... Build viral niche sites, drive free traffic, build list, and make money on c
Pixielogo Stock Get 3,000,000 stock images and videos for your creative work
Vidix Push Button Video Monetization!
VidAgency Ally Platinum VidAgency Ally special upgrade with more features to speed up results.
Recommended
VidSkippy - Pro Version Mimic YouTube Ads… Control Ads… Click in Video Drive Sales, Drive Conversions… Additional features, Plus Add Testimonials to video / video ads (unlimited campaigns)
ClipsReel - SyVID-Onetime SyVID lets you share and syndicate your videos to multiple video and social sharing sites.
EverFunnels Agency Split Pay EverFunnel is a single platform that lets you manage courses and the webinars that are a part of it.
Visual Voice Pro 2.0 - Voice Analysis [Dead Offer] Shows you how to have video on your local news station or even on the Huffington Post.
Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box Upsell 2 Get this Up-to-date "Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
Aiwis Ambition Club (AAC) Downsell This is a trial for the ultimate way to keep up to date and ahead of the trends!
Smart Video Metrics (Personal Package) "See How I genereted over $32,502.90 from just 2 VIDEOS in Less Than A Week..."
Play Mockup PRO LITE Get More Attention Grabbing Templates PLUS Commercial / Developer License to Entire Package and Start Creating Designs for Clients At $400 - $,1500 Per Pop!
Launchify360 PREMIUM LAUNCHIFY360 - Get the EXACT Step-By-Step Blueprint, Software And Toolkit Used To CREATE and LAUNCH A Product That SOLD Over $365,508 in 5 days On JVZoo!
P1 Profits + SyndLab 25k - m Page 1 Rankings For BOTH Video and Niche Sites Made EASY With Automatic Syndication!
Tappit Template Club Get this Breakthrough Automated Software Builds Self-Generating and Buyer-Driven Funnels Using AI Analysed Links and Generates Leads and Profits On The Way Without Lifting A Finger
Pixamattic EXCLUSIVE Edition Your Design Agency Team With Commercial, Developer, Outsourcer and Virtual Assistant License PLUS... MORE AUTOMATION. Sell Automated Designs, Mini-Videos and Parallax Videos For 100% Profits. Includes INTERNATIONAL RIGHTS. LOWEST Price TODAY Ever. Rises To $4
. .
Designa [White Label] Silver: 10 License You Are Getting The Complete White Label To Designa Suite A Suite of 6 Rock Solid SaaS Platforms   With a MASS APPEAL - Everyone needs them
SyndBuddy + SyndLab 25k - m Page 1 Rankings For BOTH Video and Niche Sites Made EASY With Automatic Syndication!
LetSpinio Silver Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
SociLiveStream 1. Live Streaming and Live Event in Youtube, Facebook  3. Keyword Suggestion for Youtube Live  4. Facebook Live Stream Syndication to Pages, Groups, profiles. (Admin)  5. No of Streaming and Syndication Campaign 60/month.   6. No of Social Media Account : 1
The Big Three Indicator Trading Software THE BIG THREE INDICATOR IS THE ONE OF THE BEST TRADING SOFTWARE TOOLS AVAILABLE. This trading tool works with Cryptocurrency, Stocks, Options, and Forex! Available on the most POPULAR trading platforms. Remove all the guesswork and start learning to trade
Lead Generation Masterclass Uncover the Hidden Secrets we used to generate upwards of 2,00,000 Leads
1A Kriketz The First Live Reaction Broadcasting Software for Facebook -
YouTube Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box Upsell 2 Get your hands on our 4 additional Biz-in-a-Boxes for the price of One and add 5 new earning streams TODAY. Limited time 80% Discount!
ATL - ELITE Upgrade - PRO The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
ChatterBot - Extra Template Get your hands on extra templates to give you a running start
Logo Genie Pro Create your own professional logos with our amazing software - no experience needed!
Twitworkz Agency $1 trial SPECIAL (with Content Module) Twitworkz Following Builder is an amazing tool for auto-building your Twitter following. Agency license provides the ability to manage unlimited Twitter accounts and includes the tweet module and unlimited bandwidth usage.
Mobiflux Elite Monthly Mobiflux is the first ever Wordpress plugin that lets you capture and multiply your mobile traffic. It’s twin action system gives you the ultimate in traffic and lead generation no matter what you are marketing online.   It not only capture and harness your
VidZio - 20 DFY Videos Vidzio is a player that let you make sales directly from your videos… Customers can shop and watch at the same time without ever leaving your video or even hitting pause, you're leading them from engagement, to product, to purchase.
SST Boot Camp Bundle Effective Social Media and Video Marketing Strategies That Work
PLR Sales Funnels - Combo Package - Downsell (2 Packages) Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
