Published
In Brief
The Facts:
Donald Trump's comments on 9/11 suggest that bombs were involved in taking down the World Trade towers. He joins a long and growing list of people suggesting that this was actually a controlled demolition.
Reflect On:
Why does the US continue to hide truth about 9/11? Why do they refuse to do a proper investigation?
The destruction of the World Trade Towers on 9/11 is an event that continues to spark our awakening to the malice contained at the heart of several governments. These governments are dangled from a string by the corporations who sit above them, who are in turn dangled by the financial elite who sit above them.
The End Of Our Innocence
Prior to 9/11, many global citizens, especially American citizens, could not fathom that their government could do anything so barbaric, so unethical, and so destructive. It’s quite ironic that for years, Western media has falsely accused several politicians of other nations of murdering their own people, the latest example being the chemical gas attacks blamed on Syrian president Bashar al Assad.  But many people are seeing through this, and coming to understand how  false flag terrorism has been used a lot throughout history, both prior to and post 9/11. That said,  no event has had the awakening effect that 9/11 had and continues to have.
Today, we have thousands of architects and engineers, many academicians and even peer-reviewed studies that show there is no possible way that planes could have brought down the two towers, as well as the official story about the collapse of building number seven, which wasn’t even hit by a plane. This is why the global citizenry, and judging by the latest polls, the American citizenry, do not believe the official story put out by the government regarding what really happened on that day. It’s not because we are stupid, it’s not because we are ‘conspiracy theorists,’ it’s simply because we questioned what was being told to us via mainstream media, and decided to investigate for ourselves.
Donald Trump Weighs In
U. S. Politicians and others within government have not really questioned what happened on 9/11–except for Donald Trump. One of his engineers was the architect of the building. Here’s what he had to say, taken from  this interview:
It wasn’t architectural defect…The World Trade Center was always known as a very very strong building…Don’t forget that building took a bomb in the basement (1993). Now the basement is the most vulnerable place because that’s your foundation, and it withstood that…I got to see that area, about three or four days after it took place because one of my structural engineers actually took me for a tour, because he did the building and I said “I can’t believe it.” The building was standing solid and half of the columns were blown out…So, this was an unbelievably powerful building.
After talking about the structure of the building, and the way it was built with the steel on the outside (first building ever to do so for structural purposes …), and how it’s not possible for a plane to destroy that, he went on to say:
How could a plane, even a 767 or a 747 or whatever it might have been, how could it possibly go through the steel? I happen to think they had not only a plane but they had bombs that exploded almost simultaneously because I just can’t imagine anything being able to go through that wall….I just think that there was a plane with more than just fuel. Obviously they were very big planes, they were going very rapidly…You’re talking about taking out steel, the heaviest caliber steel that was used on the building. These buildings were rock solid.
Trump also stated the fact that the US government had knowledge before the attack before it happened, and they still did not stop it. He also mentioned that he saw a big hole in some of the steel beams, hinting to explosions.
Trump has been quite outspoken regarding corporate control over the government,  as well as all of the deceit that goes on as to how our government has been hijacked by rogue groups within the government. It’s easy to see why he was and is completely vilified. It had nothing to do with racism or sexism, and if you think this, you’re simply regurgitating what you get from television programming, and have no understanding of how politics works. We go into it deeper here:
Other Commentators On The Deep State
Below is a great quote from  Robert W. Welch Jr , given way back in 1958, addressing the Deep State.
“So brush the insiders dust out of your eyes, my friends, and the communist soap suds out of your Brain, and ask yourselves in all honesty, what on Earth is wrong with the United States simply minding its own business, or with having its foreign policy function primarily for the safety and benefit of the American people? Which is exactly what we had done for the first 140 years of our existence as a nation, to the incredible advantage of ourselves and everybody else, everybody, that is, except a numerically small clique of power-lusting conspirators who have somehow inflicted themselves on a gullible world.”
The American empire has had a history of infiltrating and destroying other countries through unethical means (terrorism) and then stepping in to be a ‘savior,’ imposing their will on others. This has been done through the most savage means, with 9/11 being one small example compared to what they’ve done overseas.
The real menace of our Republic is the invisible government, which like a giant octopus sprawls its slimy legs over our cities, states and nation … The little coterie of powerful international bankers virtually run the United States government for their own selfish purposes. They practically control both parties … [and] control the majority of the newspapers and magazines in this country. – John F. Hylan was Mayor of New York City from 1918-1925 ( source )( source )
But it is not representative of America, but rather the corruption within politics and the deep state that in no way represents the will of the American people.
Steve R. Pieczenik is one of many people from ‘within’ these ranks who is currently speaking about this. He’s a former United States Department of State official and has been involved with the intelligence community for years. He’s been through and worked within multiple administrations. He has been providing updates on what is happening, the deep state that exists within the American government and how there is currently a ‘battle’ between the Trump administration and the deep state. You can find those interviews online everywhere, he conducted most of them with Alex Jones. He’s also been outspoken and addressed that Trump has already commented on 9/11, and referenced the interview below.
Trump Survived The Attacks
This is why Trump has been vilified. I’ll leave you with this great quote from author Richard Dolan, taken from one of his 2016 articles.
For sure, the power elite closed ranks and did everything possible to ensure a victory for Clinton. This included not only the Democratic party (which previously played dirty pool against Bernie Sanders), but the entire mainstream media machine, the financial community, the EU, and even the Republican party itself. If nothing else, I had concluded that the media alone had done a sufficient job of demonizing Trump – multiple negative headlines daily for more than a year – to make him unelectable to the American people.
For more than a year, we have been told that Trump is a racist, sexist, xenophobe, liar, cheat, and narcissist. The attack bears all the marks of a coordinated effort among the major news outlets: CNN, NYT, WaPo, HuffPo, USA Today, and the rest. It reminded me very much of the concerted media attack against Brazil’s Dilma Rousseff which culminated earlier in 2016 in her impeachment and removal from power. In the case of Rousseff, we see what has been alternately described as a soft coup or a  Wall Street coup , rather along the lines of the “color revolutions” of a few years earlier (which are now largely understood as  CIA-NGO orchestrated ). In both cases, pretexts were created and hammered home by an insistent media that whipped up public opinion. In Brazil, it worked. It seemed like it would work in the U.S.
It is important to understand why Trump was demonized. To be sure, his character makes it easy. There is no shortage of narcissistic, sexist, or otherwise offensive statements in his repertoire from which to draw. But I have never and will never believe this is why he was demonized. Ultimately, Trump is a disruptor, and his disruption falls squarely against the two key pillars of the American ruling elite’s ideology: neoliberalism and neoconservatism.
There are many reasons to believe that Trump’s survival is a sign that the deep state is losing its power, and that the battle that Steve Pieczenik talks about is going in favor of the Trump administration and their allies. If so, 2018 might be the last year we have to pass through 9/11 without the full and incontestable knowledge about what actually happened.
The demand for Collective Evolution's content is bigger than ever, except ad agencies and social media keep cutting our revenues. This is making it hard for us to continue.
In order to stay truly independent, we need your help. We are not going to put up paywalls on this website, as we want to get our info out far and wide. For as little as $3 a month, you can help keep CE alive!
Published
It has been acknowledged in public hearings that there is a secret power that acts as a shadow government within the intelligence community that is able to withhold classified information from Congress in blatant defiance of the Constitution.
Reflect On:
Is the dam about to burst on the shadow government in America? Is it the work of truth-seekers in the awakening community that is really pushing this out into the open?
It there are readers out there who have any remaining doubts about whether there is a shadow government in the United States that has long usurped and exercised power not authorized by the Constitution, this article will hopefully put those doubts to rest. Furthermore, while this shadow government has arranged for itself the highest levels of self-protection and secrecy possible, the truth of its existence and motives has trickled out slowly over the past couple decades. In recent times, a huge increase in the number and volume of leaks suggests that the dam may be ready to burst.
Given the fact that the ‘Hillary Clinton email scandal’ has not gone away and it appears that investigations into it will resume, a look at how prior investigations into the scandal were obfuscated will provide us with a window into the mechanism by which this shadow government operates. Prior to the 2016 election, it was discovered that Hillary Clinton had used a private, non-secured server to store emails that contained sensitive, classified information. By July 2016, at a Public Hearing of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee into the matter (video below), it had already been determined that Hillary Clinton had ‘allowed somebody without a security clearance in a non-protected format to see’ the emails.
The Exposure Of Unconstitutional Authority
The Constitution of the United States of America grants the highest powers in the nation to the President and to Congress, as the elected representatives of the people. There are checks and balances in place to make sure that power is not being abused, one of which was brought forth in the  2010 Intelligence Authorization Act , which established the ‘Office of the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community’:
In accordance with Title 50 U.S.C.A. Section 3033, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community (ICIG) conducts independent and objective audits, investigations, inspections, and reviews to promote economy, efficiency, effectiveness, and integration across the Intelligence Community. The ICIG does so with integrity, professionalism, and independence. We conduct our mission free of external influence and provide objective assessments, findings, and conclusions, regardless of political or personal consequence.
In the discussion below, House Representative Jason Chaffetz asks Charles McCullough, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, to provide his committee with Hillary Clinton’s classified emails in order for this committee of Congress, the highest authority in the nation, to properly do their job of oversight.
Chaffetz: “Can you provided this committee, in a secure format, the classified emails?”
Chaffetz: “Explain what ORCON is.”
McCullough: “Originator Control.” “…uh, so I can’t… I can’t give them to even Congress without getting the agency’s permission to provide them…”
Chaffetz: “Which agency?”
McCullough: “I can’t say that here in an open hearing, sir.”
Chaffetz: “So you can’t even tell me which agency won’t allow us as members of Congress to see something that Hillary Clinton allowed somebody without a security clearance in a non-protected format to see, that’s correct?”
Originator Control?
In this exchange, it is made clear by McCullough that Congress does not have authority over a certain government intelligence agency that the Inspector General dares not even name. This government agency claims ‘ownership’ of this classified information based on the concept of ‘Originator Control,’ which basically means that the agency has the power to limit and prevent  such information to be seen by the very bodies–the Inspector General and Congress–that are supposedly empowered to provide oversight of all their activities.
Please note that this is not a matter of ‘National Security,’ as it is a simple enough matter to make members of Congress aware of the need to keep information secret and have them ‘read in’ as it were. This was actually done with members of the ICIG staff, just so they could see the portion of those emails that the unnamed intelligence agency was actually willing to release.
However, the ‘elephant in the room’ at the hearing, made obvious by Rep. Jaffetz’ reaction to the answers he was hearing, is that this intelligence agency and the broader conspiracy of powers behind it have usurped Constitutional authority from Congress and have established the power to conceal information of their choosing from any oversight. In this particular case, it should be obvious that the only reason that this information is not being released to Congress is to protect Hillary Clinton from prosecution, since she is a well-entrenched member of this power and was set to do their bidding had she been elected President.
Clinton Allies Threaten The Inspector General
In the video below taken over a year later, we see what happens to someone like McCullough, who was simply trying to do his job of alerting Congress to the danger and violations involved in Hillary Clinton putting classified information on an unsecured server. Due to his resistance to the rhetoric of the Obama government, who tried to minimize the danger posed by Clinton’s actions, he was marginalized and even threatened:
Voiceover: As Election Day approached, McCullough says the threats went further, singling him out and another senior government email investigator.
Interviewer: You were given a warning?
McCullough: I was told that we would be the first two to be fired, with her administration, that that was definitely going to happen.
Interviewer: Is that how it’s supposed to be?
McCullough: No, I was in this context a whistleblower, I was explaining to Congress, I was doing exactly what they had expected me to do, and all of a sudden I was the enemy.
Voiceover: More than 2100 classified emails passed through Clinton’s personal server, and to this day, no one is accountable.
Interviewer: If you had done this, what would have happened to you?
McCullough: I’d be sitting in Leavenworth right now.
The second half of the video below has Tucker Carlson talking with former Clinton Campaign Advisor Richard Goodstein about the matter, and I believe it is illustrative of the type of public relations tactics that have been used by the Clinton campaign as an attempt to avert criminal charges: minimize claims, challenge even the most basic and obvious truths, flat out avoid answering questions, and change the subject to demonize Donald Trump.
The Takeaway
The layers of secret power within the shadow government, as McCullough suggests, have so far been able to prevent the prosecution of Hillary Clinton and her associates for this patently obvious criminal behavior. In fact, government committees who have the legal authority to investigate the matter appear to have neither the real power nor the ‘clearance’ to see the evidence they need to do their jobs.
—
You can check out our CE protocol to dive into why understanding a bigger picture perspective of current events is key to changing our world.
The demand for Collective Evolution's content is bigger than ever, except ad agencies and social media keep cutting our revenues. This is making it hard for us to continue.
In order to stay truly independent, we need your help. We are not going to put up paywalls on this website, as we want to get our info out far and wide. For as little as $3 a month, you can help keep CE alive!
Published
Martin L. Pall, PhD and Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry and Basic Medical Sciences at Washington State University outlines in a new report the many health risks associated with 5G technology and wireless radiation in general.
Reflect On:
5G is gaining attention, and it might make us a little fearful of the effects, but we must observe this fear and bring things back to awareness of the issue so we can make better choices, but not be fearful. Check out our CE Protocol for this.
We are in the midst of a 5G wireless technology rollout, and politicians have yet to address safety concerns. I recently used Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as an example, but it’s happening worldwide. It’s one of many examples that illustrates how large corporations completely control politics. I also recently wrote about Robert F. Kennedy explaining how this came to be, and how they’ve been able to completely compromise government, big media, and our federal regulatory agencies that are supposed to be protecting and informing us.
In the video, he uses Big Pharma as an example, as they provide the most money to congress; even more so than big oil and gas. In that article I also outline multiple examples of fraud so readers can get a clearer picture of what’s going on and see some actual evidence of it.
It’s clear that we are not being protected, and politicians are simply abiding to the the will of their masters, the big corporations, who in turn act as slaves to their ‘financial overlords,’ the big banks. We continue to see products and services being approved and implemented without ever going through any safety testing. This is a big problem, and one of the main reasons why we could be seeing a drastic rise in multiple diseases and ailments, especially when it comes to neuropsychiatric disorders.  A study titled “ Microwave frequency electromagnetic fields (EMFs) produce widespread neuropsychiatric effects including depression ” published in the Journal of Chemical Neuroanatomy outlines this quite clearly, and it’s only one of thousands of peer-reviewed studies raising multiple concerns in regards to this type of technology.
Is there really any concern for the well being of humanity within these institutions? If not, why do we continue to support them? Is it because we’re under the illusion that there is actual concern? And why do we continue to take power away from ourselves by electing corrupt politicians?
“Putting in tens of millions of 5G antennae without a single biological test of safety has got to be about the stupidest idea anyone has had in the history of the world.”
That report goes through a lot of science, which only adds to all of the science that’s already available regarding the harmful effects of 5G technology. If you’re looking for more information, I often point people toward the Environmental Health Trust  because it’s a great resource that gives you access to more science.
This is not new information. For years, numerous studies have been published proving the health concerns regarding 5G technology and hundreds of scientists have petitioned the United Nations about them. These initiatives started as a result of the work done by  Dr. Marin Blank  from Columbia University’s Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics.
According to him , with regards to wireless radiation in general:
“We have created something that is harming us, and it is getting out of control. Before Edison’s light bulb there was very little electromagnetic radiation in our environment. The levels today are very many times higher than natural background levels, and are growing rapidly because of all the new devices that emit this radiation. Putting it bluntly they are damaging the living cells in our bodies and killing many of us prematurely.”
Again, it’s unbelievable that these technologies are being rolled out without any safety testing done. How is this even allowed to happen? The thing is, if there was safety testing done, there would likely be no changes made anyways, and these corporations would be allowed to rollout and utilize these technologies.
Seeing how this article is about the work of Dr. Pall, below is a lecture that goes into detail about his research and why we should be concerned with 5G technology.
It’s alarming that some people have been made to believe that this is “pseudoscience.” Not only is this surprising, but it’s also very concerning.
During the “Health in Buildings Roundtable” sponsored by the NIH and co-organized by the US CDC and several other organizations, Dr. Martin Pall from Washington State University (WSU) concluded that the “5G rollout is absolutely insane.” In this short presentation, Dr. Pall confirmed that the current 2G/3G/4G radiation the population is exposed to has been scientifically linked to: lowered fertility, insomnia, fatigue, depression, anxiety, major changes in brain structure in animals, cellular DNA damage, oxidative stress, hormonal disruption, cancer, and much more. Dr. Pall briefly explained the mechanisms of how the electro-smog emitted by our cell phones, wifi routers, cell phone antennas, and other wireless technologies affect human cells.
Related CE Articles & What You Can Do. We Don’t Have To Be Afraid
We’ve written about this topic in depth, and below are some recent articles we’ve published that go into more detail if you’re looking for more information.
On a side note, a lot of this information can spark a fearful reaction, and that’s normal. It could elicit the same fearful reaction you may have to other humanitarian issues including the massive amounts of pesticides being sprayed in our environment and on our food, the rising deforestation rates, and several other aspects of the human experience that need to be changed. As important as it is to not react with fear and panic, it’s even more important not to completely ignore these things and think everything will magically be okay.
Earth has become engulfed with this mess as a result of our ignorance, as a result of us ignoring important scientific findings such as these. If we continue along this path, disease rates will continue to rise. Awareness is key, and simply being informed about this issue is a huge step in the right direction.
So, what can you do? You could purchase some EMF protective clothing and bedding, or you could even paint your home with EMF protective paint. You can unplug your computer when not in use, turn off your cell phone, and unplug all your electronic devices before you go to sleep. You could have a wired internet connection, which is actually much faster than any wireless connection. You can live a healthy lifestyle, and you can use mind-body healing techniques to help you.
I write a lot about parapsychology, and it’s quite clear that our minds can have a significant impact on our biology. I know it sounds a little  ‘new agey,’ but the truth is, if you don’t believe you are being harmed, odds are that the impact on your biology will be significantly different than someone who is fearful and stressed out about health concerns. Consciousness is huge, and it is one of the biggest factors in regards to preventative measures.
You can learn more about this balance through our CE Protocol.
Related Articles:
The demand for Collective Evolution's content is bigger than ever, except ad agencies and social media keep cutting our revenues. This is making it hard for us to continue.
In order to stay truly independent, we need your help. We are not going to put up paywalls on this website, as we want to get our info out far and wide. For as little as $3 a month, you can help keep CE alive!
Published
Thanks to the efforts of Yao Ming, the destructive history of shark fin soup is on the decline and so is the ivory trade in China.
Reflect On:
What is your relationship like with plant and animal life? Do you view it as below you? As there simply to fulfill what you want?
The support for a shark fin soup ban has skyrocketed in China thanks to NBA Hall of Famer and GOAT of Chinese basketball, Yao Ming.
Back in 2011, Ming became the face of an awareness campaign on shark fin consumption that has been effective in raising awareness about an issue many thought was untouchable within Chinese tradition and cuisine. As a result of this campaign, most recent government surveys have shown that shark fin consumption in China has fallen by up to 80%!
Shark fin soup is considered a Chinese delicacy and has a deep history in traditional weddings, banquets and prestigious events. The soup, although considered a luxury item, has slight flavors and isn’t all that unique. Given the amount of suffering and death that goes into creating the soup, you’d imagine there would be something more to it other than light flavors and texture. Then again, our treatment of animals on this planet for even the slightest human benefit has been shocking for decades.
As many as 73 million sharks end up in the global shark fin trade every year according to Oceana.org . In many cases, when sharks are caught, their fins are removed and then they’re thrown back into the ocean to die as they’re unable to swim.
In 2006, as many as 75% of Chinese citizens were unaware that shark fins were actually used in shark fin soup. After awareness increased due to campaigns like the one Yao Ming participated in, public education has shifted the perception on shark fin soup.
Shark fin consumption in China has fallen by up to 80% in the last 10 years. And it just so happens that Yao Ming’s activism on the issue has been going for the exact same amount of time.
Ming Moved Onto China’s Ivory Trade Next… And Won
With Ming being China’s most powerful celebrity for 5 consecutive years between 2004 and 2009, you can imagine that, in a country of over a billion people, that truly says something in terms of public power. Ming was moved to take on China’s ivory trade and once again used his image and platform to raise awareness about elephant poaching. He teamed up with WildAid to eventually find success in making it illegal to buy Ivory in China.
Chinese state media Xinhua described the run-up to the ban as “one of the largest ever public awareness campaigns” with support from other celebrities such as actress Li Bingbing.
“We all know that there is ‘on paper,’ and under the paper, there’s still a long way to go to save the animals — and then save ourselves,” Ming told CNBC.
Yes, there is more work to be done. The way we treat our environment and the animal kingdom on this planet truly needs to change, and that change will only come from awareness and connecting to self. Great genocide takes place on our planet every single year… and it is that of animals for needless human consumption.
The Takeaway
Even the largest of challenges we face can be changed with the efforts of people. Sure, in this case, it was a celebrity with great influence, but in many other cases, it is large groups of people coming together. The March Against Monsanto is a great example of that. I recall when that was first starting out and we were one of just a small handful of websites who actively raised awareness about Monsanto’s actions – even when other partnering companies wouldn’t work with us because of our efforts in that area of reporting.
Slowly but surely, our stories and articles became more and more viral over the years. The conversations eventually moved to the mainstream, and over time, it is now being turned into action across the planet against GMO foods and practices. Something that started out with just a few people has grown into a global movement thanks to their tireless efforts to do the right thing.
We have the power to do great things. Something that seems small can build to be impactful over time, but even if it doesn’t, doing what inspires you is an incredible energy to add to collective consciousness and inspire others.
Change truly starts within. That’s why I created The 5 Days of You Challenge and made it available for everyone. With this challenge, everyone can begin getting in touch with themselves and making a difference in our world. Check it out here.
The demand for Collective Evolution's content is bigger than ever, except ad agencies and social media keep cutting our revenues. This is making it hard for us to continue.
In order to stay truly independent, we need your help. We are not going to put up paywalls on this website, as we want to get our info out far and wide. For as little as $3 a month, you can help keep CE alive!
 
The all-new CETV brings together the leading voices in the truth and consciousness realm to a single platform for the first time ever. 
Thanks, you're keeping conscious media alive.
