stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Close
Melania Trump and Brigitte Macron lead glamour as first ladies arrive in Argentina for G20 summit
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Nov 30, 2018
Melania Trump and Brigitte Macron lead glamour as first ladies arrive in Argentina for G20 summit
Melania Trump and Argentinian First Lady Juliana Awada led the glamour as the world's First Ladies met at the G20 summit in Buenos Aires today.
Melania, 48, looked stylish in a $4,900 floral dress by Gucci as she posed for photographs at the Villa Ocampo museum in the Argentinian capital.
Juliana, 44 - the wife of Argentinian President Mauricio Macri - meanwhile opted for a white maxi dress for the occasion.
French First Lady Brigitte Macron, 65, also opted for a white dress for the occasion, while Sophie Trudeau, 43, the wife of the Canadian Prime Minister, looked elegant and in a blue and white patterned dress.
Melania, who teamed her floral frock with a pair of co-ordinating green heels, looked in high spirits as she was greeted by Argentina's First Lady Juliana at the G20 summit today.
The pair took centre stage in the group photograph, alongside Chinese First Lady Peng Liyuan.
Others at the meeting included Turkish first lady Emine Erdogan, Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's wife Ho Ching, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's spouse Akie Abe and South Korea's first lady Kim Jung-sook.
European Council President Donald Tusk's wife Malgorzata Tusk also posed for the group pictures, wearing a blue shift dress.
The world's first ladies began arriving in Buenos Aires on Thursday, ahead of the two-day summit, which began today.
Melania looked stylish in a $5,990 leather Ralph Lauren coat and white pencil skirt as she touched down in Buenos Aires with President Donald Trump on Thursday, having changed out of the purple Derek Lam skirt she wore for her departure from Washington, D.C.
Meanwhile, Brigitte opted for a chic white blazer and matching skirt, featuring a zip down the front, as she joined husband President Emmanuel Macron at a reception with Argentinian President Mauricio Macri and First Lady Juliana Awada.
Juliana  has been busy meeting world leaders and their wives as they arrive in Argentina, including Justin Trudeau and wife Sophie.
The Canadian Prime minister and his wife Sophie posed for photographs outside the Olivos presidential residence in Buenos Aires on Thursday, along with President Macri and his wife Juliana.
Sophie, 43, looked sophisticated in a black blouse and tailored trousers, along with a pair of black stilettos and a colourful clutch bag.
Argentinian First Lady Juliana meanwhile opted for a glamorous black lace dress, which she teamed with co-ordinating heels.
Other First Ladies to have arrived in Buenos Aires for the summit included Chinese President Xi Jinping's wife, Peng Liyuan, as well as South Korean  President Moon Jae-in's wife Kim Jung-Sook.
Queen Maxima of the Netherlands also arrived for the summit on Thursday, returning to her native Argentina.
Maxima, 47, looked typically stylish in a black shift dress featuring a red and white stripe on the skirt as she attending an Investment Forum at the Kirchner Cultural Centre in Buenos Aires.
She was joined by Argentinian President Macri and wife Juliana for the event, which took place on the eve of the summit.
Theresa May has become the first serving UK Prime Minister to visit Buenos Aires, after arriving for the summit on Thursday.
She was dressed for business as she landed without husband Phillip, wearing a grey blazer and black trousers, accessorised with an orange beaded necklace.
The G20 summit will see two days of talks take place between 19 leading countries and the EU.
This is the 13th time the G20 have met, and the first time that the meeting has taken place in South America.
The member countries of the group are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Category
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
