Search
Home News 2019 George Conway Mocks Trump’s Negotiating Skills With ‘Art Of The Deal’ Rewrite
February 10, 2019
February 10, 2019
George Conway went all in with his latest attack on President Donald Trump .
The conservative attorney, who is married to Trump’s top aide and adviser Kellyanne Conway , went on a blistering tweet binge Friday, calling Trump a “joke” and “an incompetent fool.”
It followed Trump’s temporary backtracking over his demands that Congress allocate money for a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, which saw him strike a deal  to reopen the federal government  after the longest shutdown in U.S. history.
Conway also mockingly rewrote the title of Trump’s 1987 memoir, The Art Of The Deal.
Conway later shared the Merriam-Webster dictionary’s report on spikes in search for the term “cave.” 
Recommended For You
VidioX 360
And he suggested this would be a better word to describe the president:
RELATED COVERAGE
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
Recommended
InfinityStore Pro Turn Your Website Visitors Into Buying Customers Using Product Discount Tech
301 Link Builder - OTO The most powerful link building software is here. Get high quality backlinks from authority websites within minutes.  No Captchas, No Waiting - Get Links Instantly!
Storymate Whitelabel Storymate – Worlds First ‘Story’ Tool to create, post and send huge traffic to your sites through Instagram and Facebook Stories.   1- Pick A Template 2 – select or upload content  3- 1 click Render -4- post direct   to fb or instagram stories.
VidFactory Elite Create beautiful video ads with our cloud-based video creation and editing tool.
Authority Overlay - One Time An amazing cloud-based service that allows you to hijack the authority of big web sites by placing your custom "calls to action" on top of any of their pages.  This enables you to promote anything you want with the perceived authority of those major sites
Sqribble FANTASIA 3D | 2-IN-1 Bundle Flipbook and 3D Cover Technology Bring Your eBooks and Reports TO LIFE With Intelligent NEW Interactive FLIPBOOK and 3D Cover Creation Technology! INCLUDES Commercial License For MAXIMUM Profits. Special Offer Today ONLY!
Gram Poster Gram Poster (5 Account License) Instagram Poster
TweetPush Agency Elite Once you become a Tweetpush Agency Seller we give you an Agency license. You can then sell TweetPush with Elite or Pro level access to your leads.  Your customers will get full access to TweetPush but you will have full control.You can create new customer
Fast Local Websites Special 24 complete Local Business websites - 3-minute installation - Includes fully editable consumer guides and 24 Live Spokesperson Videos.
TrendBuilder Revolutionary New Self-Updating News Website Builder Using Automated Posting Technology And Integrated With Our Award Winning Traffic Software
Logo Genie Pro Create your own professional logos with our amazing software - no experience needed!
Recommended
Tappit Agency250 Get this Breakthrough Automated Software Builds Self-Generating and Buyer-Driven Funnels Using AI Analysed Links and Generates Leads and Profits On The Way Without Lifting A Finger
XFUNNELS Pro Personal- Million Dollar Template Club Get Our Best 500 High Converting Funnel and Page Templates?That Have Generated US Over $3 Millions and Over 200,000 Customer Leads In Last 6 Months With Over 5000 Stock 4K Videos + 5000 Stock HQ Audio Sounds +?5 Million 4K UHD Stock Images + Premium Photoshop
ProfitBuilder Academy ProfitBuilder Academy - Discover the Secrets of Legends as Sean grills industry experts to reveal their secrets and shares some of his own secrets in this explosive advanced training...
eLasso - Whitelabel Sell eLasso as your own software under your own brand and charge any price that you want.
GIFbuddy GIFbuddy is the World's 1st Set and Forget GIF Marketing System for Facebook, Twitter AND WordPress Powered by GIPHY via Commercial API Approval. Nothing to Create. Schedule out for Days, Weeks, Months
LiteApp Studio 2.0 - Charter NEW AIl-In-One Mobile App Builder Helps You Create  ALL TYPES Of Amazing Native Mobile Apps (iOS + Android + Amazon + Blackberry) AND Viral Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) from ANY Website URL in minutes, With Zero Technical Skills!
Sociible Agency Unlimited (mtly) Sociible Allows You To Create FULLY-AUTOMATED Social Marketing Campaigns in MINUTES by Leveraging OTHER People's AUTHORITY Content  For UNLIMITED, Hands-Free Traffic, Leads and PROFIT – in ANY Niche!
ShopABot Agency Silver Build and Sell these easy Amazon affiliate stores, with proven viral products and in-built viral traffic system.
Discover AGENCY - UNLIMITED Sales License DISCOVER the lead generation and automation software making sales easy. Your UNLIMITED Agency Sales License
TigerPress Volume 8 Expansion Pack Expansion pack includes HTML versions of the 3 themes, our local seo engine plugin version and bonuses.
Fan Page Money Method Where The Money Is On Facebook And How To Get It.
VisualReel - Silver VisualReel Silver is a visual content builder with Silver features. It lets you create and share Cinemagraphs, Memes and Quote-Pictures using its massive library of 1000s of videos and images.
Bryan Winters' DLCM System Bryan Winters' Dumb Little Cash Makers System. Instant Discounted Access.
DFY Printables DFY Printables so that you don't have to do all the work by yourself.
User Growth Monthly Option Allows you to covertly siphon traffic over any authority site to double or triple your leads and sales on autopilot.
UltraSuite Theme  Pro UltraSuite Theme Pro comes with Additional  :-  1)  30 Lead Pages  2) 30 Optin Popops  3) 800 Graphics  4) 200 logos  5) TemplateBundle.net Access 6) Pluginexpert.net Access
KickassTuber Club - Monthly The World's First "All-In-One" YouTube Graphics And Video Branding Platform - Pro Club Monthly Membership
Three For One Hosting Reseller 50 Package Three For One Hosting Reseller 50 Package -- 100% Frontend Commission on 50 Three For One Hosting Accounts
[2] VTG 2.0 + SyndLab Pro Page 1 Rankings For BOTH Video and Niche Sites Made EASY With Automatic Syndication!
1 Click Niche Site Builder FE - 100 Personal Sites License 1 Click Niche Site Builder Creates  100% Fully GDPR Compliant Traffic Ready Money Sites In Under 60 Seconds For Massive Traffic, Leads and Sales  24/7 ON COMPLETE AUTOPILOT
VidViral Monthly VidViral is a cloud based suite that turns any Video(YouTube, Vimeo, Dailymotion, or self upload) into a Attention Grabbing Masterpiece by adding a additional layer of header and footer to the video which directly talks with the viewer.
Hydravid DONE FOR YOU Video Marketing System The Ultimate Done For You Video Marketing System. Includes all graphics, sales letters, Animated Video, EReport and Email Sequence
QSC 2018 - Aiwis and Upgrades! Aiwis transforms your marketing efforts and websites into a sales machine platform
Cryptomatic360 [Front End]Charter Finally, You Too Can Get Your Hands On The Secret Weapon For Turning $300 into $78,000 in less than 60 days In The Bitcoin And Other Cryptocurrencies Market.... Even If you Have Never Bought Or Traded In Any Cryptocurrency Before
Lifetime Stock Video Lifetime access to Lifetime Stock Video including 1,000 4K and HD video backgrounds and footages.
=
Recommended
Easy Graphics Wizard Software Easy Graphics Wizard Software Suite including the Pro Version of All 9 Graphics Software, Thousands of Ready Made Templates, and Built-In Graphics Library.
AffiliFunnels LICENSE PRO (Discount) Worlds #1 "Done-For-You" Digital Product and Sales Funnel Creator.  Cloud Based App Creates High Converting Squeeze Pages, Digital Products and Sales Funnels In Under 60 Seconds! LOWEST One-Time Launch Special Price Today ONLY!
IFL - BonusBuilder - PRO Instant Funnel Lab - The Newbie-Friendly, Cloud Based Software That Creates High-Quality Sales Funnels With Done For You Products You Can Sell In Just 60 Seconds
Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box Monster PLR Get this Up-to-date "Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
EZ Magic Video Club - Full Year Expand EZ Magic Video with over 650 clips each month for a year!  This is the one-payment option.
Fruitphul Vault Vault of our best outsourcers, freelancers, and productivity resources.
ThemeMaker Unlimited Personal Licence ThemeMarker by ProStyler allows you to create your own completely custom WordPress themes without ever messing about with code
ProfitBuilder - LeadsFlow Pro The Ultimate SuperCharger for ProfitBuilder - LeadsFlow Pro Integrates, Tracks and Manages All Your Leads From One Simple Dashboard and Automates Major Parts of  Your Business...
(Personal) X Ranker 360 2.0 The ONLY Web-App Guaranteed To Rank More Of Your Videos On Page 1 of Google in 48 hours or less - See a LIVE Case Study here.
Graphysuite Ultimate With GraphySuite now you can create professional Graphics and Videos without any technical knowledge by just using Power Point.  GraphySuite has premium Done For You templates of Videos and Graphics of all types/Sizes for Social Media Platforms, Google Ads,
LiteApp Studio 2.0 - [Annual License] [LAUNCHING ON JAN 7,  2019 - JAN 13, 2019] NEW AI Software AUTOMATICALLY Creates Amazing Mobile Apps from ANY Website URL in Minutes, Works on All Browsers AND Can Be Instantly Downloaded and Shared Through Social Media, Text, Email and Q Code, Without Need
Lead2List Elite Monthly Leads2list captures leads from Facebook as per the niche you have set in. These leads are sought in a perfectly legit manner and rest assured the process is 100% GDPR complaint.  Once the leads have been harvested Leads2list then feeds them straight into
XNiche360 - OTO4 InstaFlip360 InstaFlip360  - Easiest Way to Sell Websites to Clients
Trendycom PLATINUM Tap into what buyers REALLY want and effortlessly unlock the fastest selling products on Wish, Wanelo, Catch, My Deal and Bonanza for EXPLOSIVE eCom profits!
Leads2List Ace Leads2List Ace unlocks 100% fresh leads source. With LinkedIn, you’ll be able to target on the basis of their jobs, educational profiles, income levels, professional expertise, skills, etc. Things you could not even imagine with Facebook.   With this upda
1-Click Dropship GOLD 1-Click Dropship GOLD will add an unlimited number of stores and products from different platforms allowing you to grow your ecom business to insane levels!
ScopeCash Only available for WP Scope customers
TweetPush Agency Pro Once you become a Tweetpush Agency Seller we give you an Agency license. You can then sell TweetPush with Elite or Pro level access to your leads.  Your customers will get full access to TweetPush but you will have full control.You can create new customer
List Janitor ELITE Yearly List Janitor removes duplicates emails from single or multiple lists. It removes role emails and spam traps. It can verify domain validity (mail server validity) and also verify each email address exists using SMTP technology.   It can merge lists, find com
SociJam System Monthly Soci Jam System - teaches how to use our new cutting edge Facebook marketing tool to get more engagement on your posts, comments and even on your Facebook ads.
Automated Commission Enterprise - ONE  PAY ACE is an automated affiliate business system which includes in depth traffic and marketing training plus 100% commissions on 8 top performing sales funnels with a fully automated email marketing system DONE FOR YOU.
InstaScope Only available for WP Scope customers
vidgrafiX Lite Biggest Video Graphic Asset Library
Enlightened Millionaire Mentorship (Level 4) Payment 1/5 Enlightened Millionaire Mastermind Inner-Circle - At the highest level, you'll enter our "Inner-Circle" where we'll join forces with your company to create 7-figure profit windfalls utilizing our rapid growth acceleration strategies and "done for you" sys
Tappit Reseller Get this Breakthrough Automated Software Builds Self-Generating and Buyer-Driven Funnels Using AI Analysed Links and Generates Leads and Profits On The Way Without Lifting A Finger
Kinetic - Commercial Kinetic - The High-End Cloud-Based Video Design Suite
Vizully LITE Rapid Customer-Getting Software Creates, Publishes, Schedules, Syndicates and Broadcasts To Get You BUYERS For FASTER Profits, Hands-FREE!
The Digital Marketing Lifestyle - Complete Sales Funnel With PLR Brand New, High Converting PLR Package You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
Discover ANNUAL License Annual License for DISCOVER Lead Generation App
Video Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box Upsell Get this Up-to-date "Video Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
Channel Authority Builder 2 Reseller Channel Authority Builder is a channel authority building YouTube software. So, with this software here is a business opportunity for you, with the help of which you can resell it and keep 100% of the profits.   All you need is a list of your own to sell
ATL - PLATINUM Upgrade - PRO The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
VideoMate Developers / Agency 100% automated video marketing.  Get automated content Get automated traffic Get automated list building Get automated social followers Get automated PROFITS  All using the power of VIDEO
