My News
Personalise your news feed by choosing your favourite topics of interest
Get Started
No Thanks
Choose 3 or more topics that you want to see.
Irish News
Create my newsfeed
This site uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising.         By continuing to browse, you agree to the use of cookies described in our Cookies Policy.         You may change your settings at any time but this may impact on the functionality of the site.         To learn more see our Cookies Policy .
OK
Tags
'See you on the campaign trail, Liz!': Trump responds to Elizabeth Warren's 2020 bid
Warren is among the highest-profile of the growing pool of Democrats hoping to unseat Trump in 2020.
By AFP Sunday 10 Feb 2019, 9:31 AM
Feb 10th 2019, 9:31 AM 14,375 Views 27 Comments
https://jrnl.ie/4486436
Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren officially announces her candidacy for POTUS. Source: SIPA USA/PA Images
DEMOCRAT ELIZABETH WARREN officially kicked off her 2020 White House run with a full-throated pledge to defend working Americans, unbowed by a row over her Native American ancestry that has threatened to nip her campaign in the bud.
“This is the fight of our lives,” she told cheering supporters in gritty Lawrence, Massachusetts, against “a rigged system that props up the rich and powerful and kicks dirt on everyone else.”
“Millions of families can barely breathe,” Warren said, in a feisty speech that struck aggressively populist and unapologetically left-leaning notes. “It is not right.”
Last night, US President Donald Trump responded to the announcement in his usual fashion – through a tweet:
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
The Massachusetts senator – who had announced her intention to run on New Year’s Eve – is among the highest-profile of the growing pool of Democrats hoping to unseat Trump in 2020.
The Democratic field is already the party’s most diverse ever – in gender, age and ethnic background – and one of its more progressive. It includes several well-known women lawmakers, with Senator Amy Klobuchar expected to join their numbers later today.
Warren’s past battles with Wall Street have brought her a large following, and her campaign team has drawn the grudging respect of its rivals. Hoping to ride the momentum of her Lawrence speech, she heads next to early-voting Iowa and New Hampshire, followed by five other states.
But for now it is unclear how badly damaged Warren is by the stubborn controversy over her claim to Native American roots – a claim Trump has seized upon to belittle her, mocking her as ‘Pocahontas’.
Hoping to put the controversy to rest, Warren released DNA tests in October – but this backfired when they showed her to have only negligible amounts of Native blood, dating back generations. Warren ultimately apologised to the Cherokee Nation.
Source: Elise Amendola
The matter reared its head again this week when The Washington Post published what it said was an official 1980s document in which Warren listed her race as ‘American Indian’.
‘Exposed as a fraud’
Trump’s re-election campaign issued a dismissive statement ahead of Warren’s announcement, saying she had “been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career.” It said her “socialist ideas” would hurt workers.
“This is a story that she did not want in this launch,” said John Cluverius, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts-Lowell.
But he also cautioned that “it’s still very, very early” to speculate on “how it harms her, or doesn’t harm her.”
Lawrence, the scene of Warren’s announcement, is a former mill town where a group of women workers, including many immigrants, launched a strike in 1912 that spread across the region and came to be seen as a historic victory for women and for labour, with improved wages and working conditions.
Source: Brian Cahn
The 69-year-old senator has made the protection of middle-class rights the central pillar of her political message.
Lawrence, once part of a bustling US textile industry, has for years fallen on hard times, with the loss of thousands of factory jobs.
But Warren showed nothing but pride in Lawrence’s pro-worker history. “I will never give up on you,” she said. “I am in this fight all the way.”
Humble origins
She called for “big, structural change” in America that would reach beyond new US leadership – though she called the Trump administration “the most corrupt in living memory.”
Warren said she would press for steeper taxes on the rich, strong anti-corruption legislation, curbs on lobbyists and a defence of the climate. She also supports universal health care. 
Source: Jerry Mennenga
She pointed to her own rise from humble origins – the daughter of a janitor, she started her schooling in a $50-a-semester community college and ended up teaching law at Harvard – arguing that she can help bring a revival of the American Dream.
Warren tried in her speech to appeal to a broad ethnic coalition, saying, “We must not allow those with power to weaponize hatred and bigotry to divide us.”
Cluverius says Warren will need strong Hispanic support since two popular African Americans – Democratic senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker – are also in the crowded field.
She will also need to win over female voters, which might explain the highly unusual – and somewhat risky – decision to include a story about potty-training her baby daughter.
Warren recounted her decision to go to law school when Amelia was not quite two years old, but said the only day care she could find – with five days before classes were to start – would take the child only if potty-trained.
A determined Warren accomplished the task, she told a laughing crowd, “courtesy of three bags of M&Ms.”
“Since that day, I’ve never let anyone tell me that anything is ‘too hard,’” she quipped. 
Embed this post
To embed this post, copy the code below on your site
600px wide
400px wide
300px wide
<iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/elizabeth-warren-trump-campaign-2020-4486436-Feb2019/?embedpost=4486436&width=300&height=460" ></iframe>
Email “'See you on the campaign trail, Liz!': Trump responds to Elizabeth Warren's 2020 bid ”.
Your Email
Recipient's Email
Submit
Feedback on “'See you on the campaign trail, Liz!': Trump responds to Elizabeth Warren's 2020 bid ”.
Your Feedback
Please give full details of the problem with the comment...
Your Email
COMMENTS (27)
This is YOUR comments community. Stay civil, stay constructive, stay on topic. Please familiarise yourself with our comments policy here before taking part.
 
Access to the comments facility has been disabled for this user
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Post Comment
Read Next:
Trending Opinions
2
3
1
2
3
1
2
3
1
3
Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2019 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.
TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports                 the Office of the Press Ombudsman.  This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the                 press, offers readers a quick, fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may                 have in relation to articles that appear on our pages.  To contact the Office of the                 Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie
Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .
News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .
Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
Please log in with facebook to become a fan
Message:
Email Address
Submit
