91.7K SHARES
91.7K SHARES
It's a medical breakthrough unlike any other, one that effectively puts an end to cervical cancer among women.
After 20 painstaking years of research, Eva Ramon Gallegos, a Mexican scientist has finally developed a cure to eliminate 100 percent human papillomavirus and prevent the spread of cervical cancer among women.
Dr Eva Ramón Gallegos (center) with her team / National Polytechnic Institute
Human papillomavirus (or HPV) is very common is widespread all over the world. There are over 100 variants of HPV of which at least 14 can cause cervical cancer (CCU), which is quickly becoming a leading cause for death among women cancer patients worldwide, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
But thanks to the tireless, two-decade long effort of Dr Eva Ramon Gallegos and her research team at Mexico's National School of Biological Sciences (ENCB) of the National Polytechnic Institute (IPN), there is now a therapy that eliminates 100% of HPV.
Dr Gallegos specializes in the study of photodynamic therapy in fighting HPV and early detection and 100% elimination of cervical cancer. And after 20 years of her research in the field, she has finally tweaked the therapy enough to get maximum result.
Don't Miss
What's remarkable about Dr Gallegos' research is it doesn't have any collateral damage on the human body. According to the research, this therapy has no side effects. "Unlike other treatments, it only eliminates damaged cells and does not affect healthy structures. Therefore, it has great potential to decrease the death rate from cervical cancer," she explained, as per a Radio Guama report.
If humanity is one day successful in eliminating all forms of cancer, it will be thanks to a large part by the efforts of Dr Gallegos and her team.
864 SHARES
1K SHARES
201 SHARES
1K SHARES
299 SHARES
926 SHARES
2.7K SHARES
India 2 IAF Jets Collide Ahead Of Bengaluru Air Show
Space Farewell, Mars Opportunity Rover
India India Donates Generously For Kin Of Pulwama Martyrs
India Major Bisht: A Groom-To-Be Martyred Days Before His Wedding
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
Stay UPDATED with all that's buzzing and trending with indiatimes App!
FOLLOW US ON
other sites
