 Share
 Tweet
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Saturday officially launched her 2020 presidential campaign. President Donald Trump took to Twitter to comment on the latest Democratic challenger to enter the race.
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Clearly, Trump's tweet was meant to be read with sarcasm. Warren is the one who got herself in this mess. She was quick to say she's Native American so she could claim to understand the struggles of minorities. She wanted to be able to relate to people of color. Then it came out that she's only 1/1024th Native American. Her cheap political points ended up costing her more than she gained when everything was said and done.
Of course, liberals were triggered by what Trump said. Apparently referencing the Trail of Tears (because, you know, Warren is likely to be crying on the campaign trail) is suddenly racist, insensitive and down right disgusting. 
Donald Trump is referencing the Trail of Tears, in which Andrew Jackson forced 16,000 Native Americans to relocate on foot through freezing temperatures. 2,000-8,000 died along the way. https://t.co/0f6OLDMZ0V
There is no way that Donald Trump, who talks about how much he loves Andrew Jackson all the time, does not know about the Trail of Tears. There is no other interpretation of this tweet that I understand. He is making a joke about genocide against Native Americans. https://t.co/71DuX0mhy0
Ralph Northam wore blackface decades ago and we have a non stop media and political debate for days. Donald Trump jokes about the genocide of Native Americans and it’ll be forgotten within hours if it even registers in the first place. Such is the asymmetric state of US politics. https://t.co/hLK4dUjLl3
Elizabeth Warren, like many white people from Oklahoma, held onto this family tale that she was part Native American. She apologized.
Trump idolizes Andrew Jackson, is destroying native land and just made a joke about the Trail of Tears. https://t.co/3mzljx5Fdg
What doesn't upset liberals these days? Why aren't more liberals upset with Warren for pretending to be a minority? Oh. That's right. Because she's a Democrat. But if a Republican played that card they'd automatically get called racist, not put on a pedestal so they can run for president.
Recommended
Sheriff David Clarke (Ret.)
Conservative commentator and talk radio host Dana Loesch brought up one really valid point though: Warren did this to herself and she's basically getting what she deserves. If she didn't try to rack up cheap political points she wouldn't be in this predicament. 
People who are proven to have appropriated ethnicity for professional advancement SHOULD be mocked. https://t.co/m6atPZBtXI
Matt Vespa |
Katie Pavlich |
Matt Vespa |
Bearing Arms
Townhall Finance
 
Townhall
