Howard Schultz $21.7 Million Mansion
The Starbucks Ex-CEO Howard Schultz is a less toxic version than the republican President Donald Trump which makes him a very attractive 3rd party candidate to many rich Wall Street types who want a leader who would protect their current taxation structure and who would resist adding burdensome government regulations on their business practices, while being more competent.
He and President Trump share similarities. They both claim to be self-made billionaires; they both started out in New York sections like Queens and Brooklyn; they both had tough Dads; both had failed sports franchises. They both like publicity, the limelight and they both believe that their fame and monies could win them the US presidency without any prior government experience. They probably even know each other as Mr. Schultz has several Starbucks stores on properties owned by President Trump.
Mr. Schultz has been planning this move for awhile. He’s written his memoir, has been a guest on just about every TV interview show that exists, giving him lots of free air time during the month of January 2019.
US history has proven that 3rd party candidates do not win but they can end up being a spoiler. It is possible for him to garner enough votes to get President Trump reelected when nothing less than the saving of our US democracy, which has been under attack from within and without, is at stake.
Mr. Schultz has to know that his plan at this time is reckless/ high risk. It seems that he doesn’t care which makes him just another entitled billionaire who wants what he wants and damn the consequences. The following Salon article paints a portrayal of his self-centered way of doing things.
Here’s the rest of the story…
On  January 31, 2019, Amanda Marquette of Salon penned the following report, “Howard Schultz built a driveway through a park: This is why he shouldn’t be president” (“The Starbucks CEO’s 1994 battle over a Seattle park is a classic story about America’s billionaire class”)
Excerpts:
“Whether or not Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz is sincere about conducting an independent presidential campaign, the media blitz he has received makes clear that this particular billionaire has nothing but contempt for the concept of the public good. Consider the way  Schultz speaks about politicians  who want to ameliorate economic inequality through progressive taxation: He has said they are “ridiculous,” “misinformed” and even “un-American” for wishing to return to the tax rates of the mid-20th century. Schultz appears to be using the threat of a spoiler campaign in order to intimidate Democrats out of even talking about higher taxes on the rich.”
“But one story out of Seattle from the early 1990s regarding a public park and a private driveway perfectly illustrates the toxic brew of entitlement, contempt for the commons and overblown self-regard that is fueling Schultz’s presidential flirtation.”
“Quite a few of Howard Schultz’s neighbors say the Parks Department never should have let him build a 100-foot driveway through the park next to his new home overlooking Lake Washington, near Denny Blaine Park,”  begins a Jan. 3, 1994, Seattle Times  article written by Dick Lilly.
Schultz had purchased a parcel of private property on a Seattle hilltop that already had a driveway running through Viretta Park, but that wasn’t enough. The coffee magnate wanted more than the existing “overgrown lane,” so he got city permission to build a new driveway and even convinced Seattle authorities to waive the $25,000 fee they charged for using the park as a staging area during driveway construction.
“[P]arks employees apparently expected Schultz to make significant — though unspecified at the time — improvements to the park,” Lilly wrote in 1994.
Park employees discovered that Schultz had built a wall and planting area that extended into park land, and said Schultz had “far overstepped any approvals” for a driveway.    Residents complained that the park was no longer usable for public recreation, its intended purpose.  City officials reportedly had great difficulty even getting Schultz’s lawyers to respond to their requests that he scale back his construction to meet the terms of their original agreement.
Kurt Cobain’s house in Viretta Park
“The way in which the property is landscaped makes upper Viretta Park appear to be a part of Mr. Schultz’s land,” John Capps, then-president of a neighborhood group called the Madrona Community Council, said in a letter to the parks department.
As these things do, this dispute ended up in years of lawsuits before Schultz, having remade the park to suit his interests, abruptly moved to another part of town.
It’s a small story in the scheme of things, and one echoed many times over in encounters between local governments and wealthy individuals. But illustrates why many in Seattle see Schultz as an imperious figure who believes that his wealth and success entitles him to behave like an entitled nobleman.”
The most  prominent example, of course,  is Schultz’s 2006 sale of the Seattle SuperSonics , the city’s fiercely loved basketball team,  in a fit of pique when taxpayers  refused to pay for massive renovations of KeyArena or build him a new arena. The new owners moved the Sonics out of town in 2008; they are now the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Schultz writes in his new book  that he “will forever be deeply sorry” for the Sonics fiasco. But in truth, he’s not apologizing at all. Instead, he’s sorry that he  miscalculated in believing  that he could use the threat of moving the team to strong-arm the city into giving him massive sums of money for a new arena.
“ Seattle columnist Joel Connolly unloaded  on the Starbucks tycoon on Monday (128/19), chronicling the loathing many Seattle residents feel toward Schultz for his “nonstop whining about the lease on Key Arena.”
“I didn’t think my opinion of Howard Schultz could get any lower after he stabbed our entire community in the back and sold the Sonics: But I guess he could stab the entire country in the back,” Derek Richards, head of the the King County Young Democrats, is quoted as saying.”
“People who aren’t sports fans may not understand this, but the loss of the Sonics came as a major blow to a city that has undergone massive changes over the past few decades. To get a taste of how bitter people were well after the fact, check out  this concert rant from Soundgarden’s Chris Cornell in 2011 , three years after the Sonics departed for Oklahoma City.”
SCHULTZ
“Schultz’s behavior towards Seattle illustrates the attitude that is also fueling his presidential ambitions: A belief that everyone else should kowtow to the billionaires, and that they owe nothing to their communities.”
“Like many of America’s much-touted billionaires, including the one who somehow wound up in the White House, Schultz  likes to describe himself  as “self-made.” This sort of rhetoric is normalized and mundane in the U.S., but it should be treated as the ridiculous joke it is. Schultz would be nowhere without the thousands of people who actually do the work every day of running Starbucks: The baristas, the construction workers, the coffee growers, the shipping employees and the office dwellers who run everything from customizing the holiday-specific drinks to the design elements.”
“Schultz, like every other successful capitalist, built his wealth on other people’s labor and the support of communities like Seattle, which offer him roads and other infrastructure to operate his business with — and also bought his coffee.”
“His response to all his home city’s help and support was to sell Seattle’s basketball team and build a driveway through a city park.”
Share this:
Post navigation
Here’s a better  picture … there’s was something about him that didn’t sit right!! Here’s why … ‘US history has proven that 3rd party candidates do not win but they can end up being a spoiler. It is possible for him to garner enough votes to get Drumpf re-elected when nothing less than the saving of our US democracy, which has been under attack from within and without, is at stake.
Mr. Schultz has to know that he’s plan at this time is reckless/ high risk. It seems that he doesn’t care which makes him just another entitled billionaire who wants what he wants and damn the consequences.’ … take a look!!
Dear Horty,
Let’s put it this way. His running as a 3rd party candidate at this time in US history when nothing less than our US democracy is at stake, tells me all I need to know. He’s definitely not motivated by lofty ideals.
If he were sincere, he would add his voice to the centrist Democrats who may be running like Michael Bloomberg, Terry McAuliffe and others. If they run, They will have their chance to add to the debate of where this country should be heading.
But it is my suspicion that he wants to separate the moderate democrats from the more liberal faction to form a new coalition of GOP Never Trumpers with moderate democrats as an alternative to Trump’s Republican Party.  He and others are thinking that they can save this country while keeping their tax cuts and current deregulation measures, intact. They still would be pro business which I’m all for but not where they shut out the little guy from the American dream.
Thanks a million for all of your support and for this reblog.
Hugs, Gronda
Dear Mavadelo,
Your analysis is right on the money. I can only speculate why he is putting this country’s well being at risk if he truly gives a damn.
As i said above, both the president and Mr. Schultz share similar traits. They both claim to be self-made billionaires; they both started out in NY sections like Queens and Brooklyn; they both had tough Dads; both had failed sports franchises. They both like publicity, the limelight and they both believe that their fame and monies could win them the US presidency without any prior government experience. They probably even know each other as Mr. Schultz has several Starbucks stores on properties owned by President Trump.
It could be that Mr. Schultz is thinking that he could overcome the odds against him, like President Trump did. But he will not have the help of a Russian government to assist him.
It’s my opinion that many wealthy individuals held their noses and checked their consciences when they voted for President Trump because they wanted the 2017 GOP tax cuts and the systematic dismantling of government regulations. Howard Schultz offers them a choice.
Hugs, Gronda
Gronda, Schultz is not a perfect person, but he is nowhere close to being in the same ballpark as Donald Trump. I agree that a 3rd party candidate could serve a spoiler role, but Schultz has advocated for his employees providing training that was mentioned in Charles DuHigg’s book called “Habits.” The lesson from the book was Starbucks actually teaches better work habits that can help outside of work. One idea I remember is using your apron as a shield in helping deal with difficult customers.
I actually think Schultz would be a good candidate consider, even though he should avoid running as an Independent. Trump is one of the poorest examples of both leadership and humanity I have witnessed.
I would prefer Biden over him and maybe some others over him, but I feel he is a capable leader, a word I would not use with the US President. I do think there is a fervor going on to discredit him that may have just criticism, but certainly is overlooking a lot of good attributes.
I am sorry to be a contrarian on this. Keith
Dear Keith,
I would be thrilled to listen to Howard Schultz’s views if he was running for the presidency as a Democrat. I’m betting that there will be centrists who will enter the race as Democrats.
I have admired Mr. Schultz. I’m not expecting perfection. But I’m questioning his judgment. History has shown that the odds of a third party candidate winning the presidency is virtually nil. Mike Bloomberg did the research required  to determine if it was feasible to run as an Independent in 2016 and he figured out objectively, that this option was not possible.
The 2020 presidential elections will be a crucial one where in  my opinion, the saving of our US democracy is at stake. Mr. Schultz has to know that his running as an Independent centrist could throw the election to President Trump.
It could also cause a problem with his former company, Starbucks. Michael Moore is calling for a boycott. In short, I’m thinking that his choosing to run now under these set of circumstances makes him an unattractive candidate.
All of this has nothing to do with his past success and competence.
Hugs, Gronda
Like Like
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Respect Award
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,003 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
