Angry Robert De Niro Has Meltdown Outside Manhattan Courthouse
The ‘Goodfellas’ and ‘Taxi Driver’ star and frequent Trump critic is going through a divorce after 20-plus years of marriage
Written by LifeZette
· 2 weeks ago
By PopZette Staff | February 8, 2019
“Raging Bull” and “Goodfellas” star Robert De Niro had a bit of a meltdown in front of cameras on Thursday afternoon following a court date in which the actor was trying to hash out the details of his impending divorce.
De Niro left the Manhattan courthouse to find that his driver was not there to pick him up.
More from Wayne Dupree
The director called the driver and began yelling into his phone in front of cameras — while trying to shield his face with a newspaper.
“You’re not in front! You’re not where you dropped us off,” De Niro yelled into his phone, according to Page Six .
Advertisement
The New York Daily News captured part of the action outside the courthouse. De Niro was angry with the driver because he was mobbed by reporters and photographers the moment he left the building
“On Worth Street! Then you’d see all the photographers here! You’re not where you dropped us off!” De Niro yelled into his phone.
Advertisement
The two were married for over 20 years. They share two children, son Elliot, 20, and daughter Helen, 6.
De Niro was previously married to Diahnne Abbot, with whom he has a son and a daughter.
In addition, the actor has twin sons with Toukie Smith.
Advertisement
De Niro can next be seen starring in “The Irishman,” in which he re-teams with director Martin Scorsese (“Goodfellas,” “Casino”) and actors Joe Pesci and Al Pacino.
“The Irishman” is expected to be released through Netflix before the end of the year.
He can also be seen in DC’s “Joker,” which will be released in October.
For more, check out the video below:
This piece originally appeared in LifeZette and is used by permission.
Read more at LifeZette.com:
Previous Article
Next Article
Leave a Comment
Join Wayne's eNewsletter!
Add your email address below to be kept up to date with the latest from Wayne Dupree.
Email*
1 day ago
Recent Articles
