stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Cancel
Unsubscribe
Working...
SubscribeSubscribedUnsubscribe
13M
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 6, 2019
Last night during his State of the Union address, Donald Trump used all his best words to convince us that things are going really well. Nancy Pelosi gave us the most meme-orable moment of the night when she clapped pointedly at Trump. Sean Spicer and Mike Pence both gave interesting interviews today. According to Time Magazine, multiple intelligence officials are worried that Trump poses a national security threat because he demonstrates “willful ignorance” and refuses to listen to his own security experts. During one meeting, Trump reportedly thought Nepal and Bhutan were part of India, which they are not. On top of that, he doesn’t know how to pronounce them either. Here’s the point they’re missing though, Donald Trump doesn’t do things the old way, he thinks creatively. Why call countries by their “names” when you can come up with fun nicknames for them?
Jimmy Kimmel Responds to Trump's State of the Union https://youtu.be/EuRAtZHfX9M
SUBSCRIBE to get the latest #KIMMEL : http://bit.ly/JKLSubscribe
Watch Mean Tweets: http://bit.ly/KimmelMT10
Visit the Jimmy Kimmel Live WEBSITE: http://bit.ly/JKLWebsite
Like Jimmy Kimmel on FACEBOOK: http://bit.ly/KimmelFB
Like Jimmy Kimmel Live on FACEBOOK: http://bit.ly/JKLFacebook
Follow @JimmyKimmel on TWITTER: http://bit.ly/KimmelTW
Follow Jimmy Kimmel Live on TWITTER: http://bit.ly/JKLTwitter
Follow Jimmy Kimmel Live on INSTAGRAM: http://bit.ly/JKLInstagram
About Jimmy Kimmel Live:
Jimmy Kimmel serves as host and executive producer of Emmy-winning "Jimmy Kimmel Live," ABC's late-night talk show.
"Jimmy Kimmel Live" is well known for its huge viral video successes with 5.6 billion views on YouTube alone.
Some of Kimmel's most popular comedy bits include - Mean Tweets, Lie Witness News, Jimmy's Twerk Fail Prank, Unnecessary Censorship, YouTube Challenge, The Baby Bachelor, Movie: The Movie, Handsome Men's Club, Jimmy Kimmel Lie Detective and music videos like "I (Wanna) Channing All Over Your Tatum" and a Blurred Lines parody with Robin Thicke, Pharrell, Jimmy and his security guard Guillermo.
Now in its seventeenth season, Kimmel's guests have included: Johnny Depp, Meryl Streep, Tom Cruise, Halle Berry, Harrison Ford, Jennifer Aniston, Will Ferrell, Katy Perry, Tom Hanks, Scarlett Johansson, Channing Tatum, George Clooney, Larry David, Charlize Theron, Mark Wahlberg, Kobe Bryant, Steve Carell, Hugh Jackman, Kristen Wiig, Jeff Bridges, Jennifer Garner, Ryan Gosling, Bryan Cranston, Jamie Foxx, Amy Poehler, Ben Affleck, Robert Downey Jr., Jake Gyllenhaal, Oprah, and unfortunately Matt Damon.
Donald Trump's 'Willful Ignorance' Poses National Security Threat
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
