He had to dig deep to scrape through
Share
11:07, 10 FEB 2019
Get the biggest Daily stories by email
Subscribe
Thank you for subscribingSee our privacy notice
Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email
Judd Trump dug deep to sneak into the final of the World Grand Prix after coming from behind to beat Barry Hawkins 6-5 in Cheltenham.
The world number five will play Ali Carter in Sunday’s final which starts at 1pm.
Trump led just once in the match as he was forced to battle back from a 2-0 deficit early on. High breaks of 60, 92 and 95 and some clever tactical shots pushed Trump through.
Going into the match against Carter, Trump describes the areas he wants to improve overnight.
Read More
 
“I got back level and ahead in the frame, but I gave him easy chances which was disappointing. I felt maybe my concentration wasn’t as good as it has been in the past so it’s something I need to work on for the final,” Trump said after his 6-5 victory.
“It was a really tough game I had to come from behind all of the time. I didn’t really start off too well either so really happy to get over the line.”
An intriguing tactical battle started proceedings and it was Hawkins who took a 1-0 lead after pulling off a couple of long pots.
Hawkins then demonstrated his attacking side as he capitalised on a chance Trump left. With the pack open, Hawkins made a break of 92 and flew into a 2-0 advantage.
Read More
 
Again, it was Hawkins who seemed to have the best chance in the third frame, but he departed the table having missed a straight forward red. Trump took the opportunity to make a 60 break to clinch his first frame.
Another tactical battle followed, but it was Trump who levelled the match at 2-2 going into the interval.
The tense affair continued as the two former winners of the World Grand Prix remained deadlocked at 4-4.
Hawkins moved within one frame of the final with a quality 55 break, but Trump once again started a fight back with a 52 break in the penultimate frame.
Read More
 
Those inside The Centaur at Cheltenham Racecourse were treated to a tense, high-drama last frame decider.
Both players had chances to win the match and Hawkins went ahead by 19 points. But to continue the trend, Trump capitalised on a chance after Hawkins missed a red to the middle.
From that chance, Trump made a 95 break to win the match and moves into Sunday’s final to have a chance of winning back the trophy he won in 2015.
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Most Read
Most Recent
Most Read
Most Recent
