your username
your password
Freed American pastor Andrew Brunson (L) prays for US President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, DC, October 13, 2018. - Brunson, held for two years in Turkey, returned to the US earlier Saturday after a court freed him in a case that sparked a crisis in Ankara's ties with Washington and trouble for its economy. The court in the western town of Aliaga convicted Brunson on terror-related charges and sentenced him to three years, one month and 15 days in jail. (Photo by ROBERTO SCHMIDT / AFP)
US President Donald Trump on Thursday addressed religious leaders at a national prayer breakfast where he took credit for the release last year of Andrew Brunson, an American pastor who was jailed in Turkey, The Washington Post reported.
Brunson was among those who attended the gathering.
“He was in there for a long time before I got there, and I said, ‘You got to let him out. You better let him out.’ And they let you out,” Trump said, gesturing toward Brunson.
“It was a miracle,” Trump said, with a theatrical gesture heavenward.
“This Saturday, Pastor Brunson will walk his daughter down the aisle,” Trump said. “Well, that’s great,” he added, apparently ad-libbing. “Was I invited?”
Brunson was detained by Turkey in October 2016, three months before Trump became president. Turkey accused Brunson of spying and links to terrorist groups, but US officials insisted he was seized because of his Christian faith outreach and as a potential bargaining chip.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan repeatedly demanded the extradition of US-based cleric Fethullah Gülen who he accused of masterminding a coup attempt in July 2016, as a condition for Brunson’s release. Gülen denied having any role in the abortive putsch and called for an international investigation into it.
Amid increasing pressure by Trump as well as Vice President Mike Pence threatening Turkey with sanctions, Brunson was first moved from prison to house arrest in July 2018 and later released in October 2018.
President Trump said there was “no deal” behind Brunson’s release but repeatedly thanked Erdoğan.
Liked it? Take a second to support Turkish Minute on Patreon!
COLUMNISTS
Currency Rates
National News
