Filed under Politics at
Sign Up
Don Trump Jr. began his fundraising journey after the Republican convention and right here in Dallas, squired by Tommy Hicks Jr., the eldest son of Dallas billionaire Tom Hicks, and their mutual buddy, Dallas hedge fund manager Gentry Beach.
After less than three days of schmoozing, the trio raised more than $2 million for Trump's campaign war chest from high-dollar donors in the Lone Star State.
"That's when it all got serious," Hicks Jr. says.
Agreed, says Charlie Kirk, founder of Turning Point USA who ran the Trump campaign's millennial assault. "Gentry and Tommy really saved this election," says Kirk. "When they came on board, things were in flux. It was a campaign looking for leadership. Gentry and Tommy delivered that through incredible sacrifice. They put pieces together that put the Trump campaign on a path to victory."
"These two young wild men have done more in three or four months than politicos who've run their traps for 30 years. They flat went nuts," says Robert Blaha, chairman of the Trump campaign in Colorado. "When Donald looks out of the window of the White House, he can thank these two guys."
Big game of a different sort
For the last three months, Trump Jr. has crisscrossed the country drumming up money for the presidential campaign with Hicks and Gentry as his constant wingmen, rainmakers and strategists.
The billionaires' namesakes, both 38, and Beach, 41, became pals 15 years ago as young guns on Wall Street and in Manhattan.
Trump Jr., an avid outdoorsman and safari hunter, frequently visits Texas to fish, hunt birds and socialize with his buddies. Beach is the godfather to one of his kids.
But with the campaign, the Trump-Hicks-Beach trio — along with a cadre of other rich Dallas guys — became successful big-game hunters of a political sort.
“We’ve literally worked our tails off seven days a week, 20 hours a day,” Beach says.
“Gentry and Tommy did not waver,” says Kirk, “even when the political elites and the media said, ‘Oh there’s no way. It’s not going to happen.’ Every day, Tommy and Gentry kept on pounding for dollars.”
“There wasn’t a time in the last five months when I wavered and didn’t believe that he was going to win,” says Beach, who joined forces with the Trumps late last year to prepare for the Iowa caucus. 
Why so steadfast?
“I’ve seen people underestimate Donald Trump as long as I’ve known him,” says Beach. “And I’ve seen him deliver time and time again.”
High-rollers roll in
Campaign insiders say the money raised in North Texas by Hicks, Beach, Ray Washburne and Roy Bailey, managing director of Giuliani Deason Capital Interests LLC, equaled donations from the entire state of California.
Texas dollars came close to the amount raised in California and New York combined.
Genesco Sports Enterprises CEO John Tatum, a key fundraiser for thee presidential runs of Sen. John McCain and Mitt Romney, was among those tapped early on.
Along with Tommy’s dad, billionaire banker Andy Beal was already on board.
Donald Trump stumpers Andy Beal, left, and Tommy Hicks Jr., head back to Dallas on Wednesday aboard Beal s private jet after celebrating the upset victory in New York.
Just a month ago, Beal, who sits on Donald Trump’s economic advisory council, was a closet skeptic.
But as an avid gambler, Dallas’ richest man kept his poker face on.
Beal spent Monday, the last day of campaigning, with Trump and Hicks, traveling to Detroit and New Hampshire.
The enthusiasm was palpable. Beal began to believe Hillary Clinton and the political pundits were in for a shocker.
“But until the public speaks, no one really knows,” Beal says. “We felt we had a real shot at Donald being our next president.”
Election elation
On Election Night, the Dallas contingent turned out in full force at the New York Hilton in Midtown Manhattan -- hopeful, but still uncertain.
As the returns began to roll in, the adult beverages started to flow.
The group started out in the VIP room before heading down to the ballroom a little after midnight. But it would be nearly three hours before The Donald made his victory speech.
As soon as he finished, Beal headed up to his hotel room for a sound night’s sleep.
He didn’t stick around after the speech to speak to the president-elect.
“I didn’t try. It was just so packed,” Beal says. “I hate to appear to be a groupie. There were so many people around. I try not to follow the crowd.”
John Tatum, whose company specializes in sports marketing, describes the week as surreal.
Judith and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, from left, Genesco CEO John Tatum, New York Jets owner, Woody Johnson, and Mark  Oz  Geist,  Marine Corps. veteran and survivor of the Battle of Benghazi, celebrate Donald Trump's victory on election night at the New York Hilton.
(Genesco Sports)
“I went from being at Game 7 of the World Series with the Cubs winning to Donald Trump’s victory party,” he says. “One was a once-in-a-108-year event and the other was a once-in-a-240-year event.”
Tatum’s election night clique included former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, comedian Joe Piscopo and Mark “Oz” Geist, the Marine Corps. hero of the Battle of Benghazi.
“As the votes were coming in, it became clear that our base of support was stronger than her base of support,” Tatum says. “It reminded me of the Saints NFC championship game when they beat the Vikings to go to the Super Bowl. It was a long game, but it progressively got better and better until the Saints kicked the final field goal.”
This was the third time that Tatum had been with the Jets owner on Election Night. He and Johnson were front and center at the concession speeches of McCain and Romney.
“So we’re 1 for 3,” Tatum says. “It was great to finally win.”
Lights out
Tatum and his wife didn’t see Trump give his speech live.
After standing for hours, they gave into exhaustion and walked back to the Ritz-Carlton near Central Park in time to watch it in their suite.
“I hate to rat out Tommy and Washburne, but they cut out before, too,” Tatum says.
True, Hicks says: “I finally slept for the first time in three months.”
But then it had been a helluva last day in a helluva week in a helluva three months.
Beach and Hicks started their day on the 25th floor of Trump Tower, where the family’s offices are.
Around 3:30 p.m. they headed down to the campaign command post on the 14th floor to see how turnout was turning out.
Then the duo went back upstairs to organize a media blitz of 43 radio interviews in key counties where they needed to rally their voter base.
“We stayed there until almost 8 o’clock that night making those media calls nonstop with Don Jr. and other family members,” Beach says. "It was very effective."
That’s when they headed to the Hilton.
Soda turns to bubbly
“When Florida started coming in the way it did,” says Hicks, “I switched from Diet Coke to champagne.  Then when North Carolina happened and Ohio happened, it was game over.”
Hicks and Beach will be part of the transition team, with work on that beginning this weekend in New York. Pence will chair the effort, which includes filling more than 4092 jobs, of which 1,400 have to be approved by congress. To give more details, they said, would be speaking out of school.
“I’m so proud of the Trump family. They’re amazing to work with,” Hicks says. “All the siblings killed themselves to deliver this victory.
“Donald is the most energetic 70-year-old I’ve ever met in my life. He has more energy than I do, and I’m half his age.”
“The Trumps are going to kick butt for America,” Hicks says.
“It’s going to be a very unifying and healing. It’s going to be better than people ever imagined.”
Twitter: @CherylHall_DMN
View Comments
Cannot start with a - (dash) or _ (underscore)
Minimum 6 characters, maximum 250 characters
Get Started
Only letters, numbers, - (dashes) and _ (underscores)
Cannot start with a - (dash) or _ (underscore)
Minimum 6 characters, maximum 250 characters
Display Name
