Trump Gleeful on Poll’s Record-High Numbers for Economic Optimism
Editor: Vlad Rothstein | Tactical Investor
Before we get to the article at hand many might ask why we cover political and health issues when our main focus in the stock markets and the financial arena.   Identifying the problem is over 80% of the solution and this is why most people don’t know what to do because they don’t really understand the problem. Now you know why we are the only financial website that covers such a wide array of topics that on the surface appear to be unrelated but are in fact, deeply interwoven.   Mass psychology is a very powerful tool and if employed correctly can help you spot the grotesque levels of manipulation the masses are subjected to. We strongly suggest that you view or read or view Plato’s allegory of the cave.  You might also find the following article to be of interest:
 
President Donald Trump on Thursday touted a Quinnipiac University poll showing record-high levels of optimism among Americans concerning the economy.
A combined total of 66 percent of American voters described “the state of the nation’s economy these days” as “excellent” or “good,” up from the previous high of 63 percent of voters who said the economy was “excellent” or “good” on December 19.
The poll released found that 40 percent of voters said Trump was “more responsible for the current state of the economy,” while 49 percent believed that former President Barack Obama shared more responsibility.
 
American optimism on the economy is reaching new heights and President Donald Trump’s approval ratings look to be benefiting, at least somewhat.
The CNBC All-American Economic Survey found that for the first time in at least 11 years, more than half of respondents to the survey rated the economy as good or excellent, while a near record 41 percent expected the economy to improve in the next year.
“We’re not measuring a marginal change in the economy, we’re measuring a different economy,” said Public Opinion Strategies’ Micah Roberts, the Republican pollster for the survey. The poll of 800 adults across the nation, with a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, was conducted Dec. 10-13 by that firm and Democratic pollster Hart Research.
 
For the first time since President Donald Trump took office, the CNBC All-America Economic Survey shows more than half the public approving his handling of the economy, and it appears to be having some impact on his overall job approval rating.
The president’s economic approval rating surged 6 points to 51 percent with just 36 percent of the public disapproving, a 6 point drop from the March Survey.
The poll of 800 adults nationwide, with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, was conducted June 16 thru 19 while the controversy over the separation of children from their parents dominated the news. But any impact on the president’s approval rating is difficult to find in the data. A comparison of the polling conducted Saturday and Sunday with Monday and Tuesday, when the story was more prominent, shows little difference despite considerable public outrage.
“People are so locked in to their partisan views that it’s really hard to move those approval numbers,’’ said Micah Roberts with Public Opinion Strategies, the Republican pollster for CNBC.
 
