stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No complicated set-up. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Sebastian Gorka Show - Unobligated Balances to Fund the Border Wall (President Trump) - 1/28/19
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Jan 30, 2019
This call to Dr. Gorka's show draws attentions to one possible solution to funding the border wall that may not require declaring a national emergency or relying on Democrat support in Congress. It call unobligated balances and it is expected to be $1,156,136,000,000 (that's 1.156 trillion dollars) by the end of this Fiscal Year.
Check out my article in the American Thinker about this possible solution - https://www.americanthinker.com/artic...
Protecting the border with an effective physical barrier is a proven method to dramatically lower illegal immigration, drug smuggling, and human trafficking. And it also benefits people who wish to come to the United States. Basically, if you want to come to the US, come the legal way - which is safe, not the illegal way, which is often dangerous ( see https://www.americanthinker.com/artic... ). Also, Hezbollah has made billions off the drug trade with cocaine to the US - this money is used to harm US military personnel - https://www.americanthinker.com/artic...
Other solutions, like using unauthorized appropriations, such as what Jason Chaffetz brought up, should be looked into. In addition, money set aside in the US budget for military construction and anything else that can be relevant to building a border wall should be looked at.
Category
Loading...
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Thanks for your feedback!
Comments lack two-way discussion
Comments are not informative
Comments are repetitive
Add to
Loading playlists...
