The Paralympics Fire Back After Trump Calls Them 'Tough to Watch'
Hours after President Donald Trump called the Paralympic Games “tough to watch,” the organization called on the President to join the billions of viewers around the world who are inspired by the competition.
“Record numbers of people around the world are not finding @Paralympics tough to watch,” the organization tweeted on Saturday. “Billions of viewers now take in the Paralympics in hundreds of countries around the world. We hope the US President continues to watch and be inspired by the Paralympics.”
The Brief Newsletter
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. View Sample
The tweet comes in response to a remark Trump made at a Friday ceremony celebrating this year’s Olympic and Paralympic Games in PyeongChang, South Korea. “What happened with the Paralympics was so incredible and so inspiring to me,” Trump said at the ceremony, according to The Daily Beast . “And I watched — it’s a little tough to watch too much, but I watched as much as I could.”
The remark sparked immediate backlash online, with many recalling an incident during the 2016 presidential campaign when Trump appeared to mock a reporter with physical disability . Trump denied the accusation.
Current mood: Having no regrets about missing this trip. https://t.co/xxcKxKz6NL
This is your president,He can’t help being hurtful….He said he got melania a lovely card ,
Because he doesn’t have time to go shopping…..With all he’s put her through….Maybe he could have missed a round of golf.
With Paralympics he was cruel but didn’t seem to know it pic.twitter.com/nb7t7pGAgZ
Resolve, mettle, courage, resiliency – dignity, equality – it's not just easy to watch, its inspiring.
What's hard to watch are this President's comments, his Administration.
There are better angels among us. They're competing in the Paralympics not plundering the White House. https://t.co/w4naomlsDT
SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT
You May Like
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more
Subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price.
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more
©
TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. | EU Data Subject Requests
