1 minute read
Donald Trump Mocks Democrats’ Embrace of ‘Green New Deal’: ‘Brilliant!’
Mark Lyons/Getty Images
9 Feb 2019
President Donald Trump has mocked Democrats’ new radical policy, the “Green New Deal,” which calls for the elimination of fossil fuels in a decade, plus guaranteed income for all Americans “unwilling” to work.
The plan, introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Thursday, quickly gained the endorsement  and co-sponsorship of several major presidential candidates, as well as eleven Senators and 67 House representatives.
Republicans are thrilled at the prospect of their rivals embracing a policy that promises to wipe out massive portions of the American economy, and the president is no exception.
Trump tweeted on Saturday evening: “I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called “Carbon Footprint” to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!”
I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called “Carbon Footprint” to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!
The latter point — that no other country would follow America’s example — is crucial, because developing nations like China are rapidly outpacing the U.S. as a source of carbon emissions. They have resisted efforts by developed countries to impose uniform restrictions on fossil fuel use, arguing that they deserve the opportunity to grow their economies and liberate their citizens from poverty, just as industrialized countries did in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Republicans have already begun attacking Democrats who have embraced the Green New Deal.
For example, CNBC reports that Brad Parscale, Trump’s 2020 presidential campaign manager, responded to Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) launching her campaign on Saturday with a statement noting her support for the Green New Deal: “The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle-class.”
Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of  How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution , which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak .
Latest Headlines
FullMagazine© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved  | 
Full Magazine claims no credit for any images posted on this site unless otherwise noted. Images on this blog are copyright to their respective owners. If there is an image that belongs to you and you do not wish for it to appears on this site, please email with a link to the image and it will be promptly removed.
