Stay in the loop! Get breaking news and big stories on your desktop.
Notify Me
When prompted, click "Allow" you can always change your mind later.
news
Change weather location
Dec 22nd 2018 2:31PM
WASHINGTON (AP) — Brett McGurk, the U.S. envoy to the global coalition fighting the Islamic State group, has resigned in protest over President Donald Trump's abrupt decision to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria, a U.S. official said, joining Defense Secretary Jim Mattis in an administration exodus of experienced national security figures.
Only 11 days ago, McGurk had said it would be "reckless" to consider IS defeated and therefore would be unwise to bring American forces home. McGurk decided to speed up his original plan to leave his post in mid-February.
Appointed to the post by President Barack Obama in 2015 and retained by Trump, McGurk said in his resignation letter that the militants were on the run, but not yet defeated, and that the premature pullout of American forces from Syria would create the conditions that gave rise to IS. He also cited gains in accelerating the campaign against IS, but that the work was not yet done.
His letter, submitted Friday to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, was described to The Associated Press on Saturday by an official familiar with its contents. The official was not authorized to publicly discuss the matter before the letter was released and spoke on condition of anonymity.
In a tweet shortly after news of McGurk's resignation broke, Trump again defended his decision to pull all of the roughly 2,000 U.S. forces from Syria in the coming weeks.
"We were originally going to be there for three months, and that was seven years ago - we never left," Trump tweeted. "When I became President, ISIS was going wild. Now ISIS is largely defeated and other local countries, including Turkey, should be able to easily take care of whatever remains. We're coming home!"
Related: United Nations Security Council meets after U.S.-led strike in Syria
35 PHOTOS
United Nations Security Council meets after US-led strike in Syria
See Gallery
United Nations Security Council meets after US-led strike in Syria
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14: Vasily Nebenzya, Ambassador of the Russian Federation votes in favor of Russias resolution condemning aggression by US and its allies during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018.  (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14: Vasily Nebenzya, Ambassador of the Russian Federation votes in favor of Russias resolution condemning aggression by US and its allies during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018.  (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14: Sacha Llorenty, Bolivia Ambassador to the United Nations (C) and Ma Zhaoxu, Ambassador of China to the United Nations (R) votes in favor of Russias resolution condemning aggression by US and its allies during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018. (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14: Karen Pierce, UK Ambassador to the United Nations (L) and Nikki Haley, US Ambassador to the United Nations (R) votes against Russias resolution condemning aggression by US and its allies during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018. (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14: Bashar Jaafari, permanent Representative of the Syrian Arab Republic to the United Nations gives a speech during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018. (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: (L to R) Syrian ambassador to the United Nations Bashar Jaafari shakes hands with Russian Ambassador to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya at the end of a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: The UN Security Council holds a vote on Russian proposed draft resolution that would 'condemn the aggression against Syria by the U.S. and its allies' during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  On Friday night, the United States and European allies launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley vetoes a Russian proposed draft resolution that would 'condemn the aggression against Syria by the U.S. and its allies' during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres listens during a UN Security Council meeting at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. Russia on Saturday failed to win UN backing for a condemnation of military strikes launched by the United States, Britain and France on Syria in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack. / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: The United Nations Security Council hold an emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: Members of the Syrian delegation delegation and Syrian ambassador to the United Nations Bashar Jaafari (3rd from L) talk with Russian Ambassador to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya (R) at the end of a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley exits after she vetoed a Russian proposed draft resolution that would 'condemn the aggression against Syria by the U.S. and its allies' during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: Russian Ambassador to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya (C) votes yes for a Russian proposed draft resolution that would 'condemn the aggression against Syria by the U.S. and its allies' during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: (L to R) British Ambassador to the United Nations Karen Pierce and United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley veto a Russian proposed draft resolution that would 'condemn the aggression against Syria by the U.S. and its allies' during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley votes during a UN Security Council meeting, at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. Russia on Saturday failed to win UN backing for a condemnation of military strikes launched by the United States, Britain and France on Syria in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack. / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
Russian Ambassador to the UN Vasily Nebenzya votes during a UN Security Council meeting at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. Russia on Saturday failed to win UN backing for a condemnation of military strikes launched by the United States, Britain and France on Syria in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack. / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
Russian Ambassador to the UN Vasily Nebenzya listens during a UN Security Council meeting at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
British Ambassador to the UN Karen Pierce listens during a UN Security Council meeting, at United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018 The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
British Ambassador to the UN Karen Pierce speaks with an aide during a UN Security Council meeting, at United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018 The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley listens during a UN Security Council meeting at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
Russian Ambassador to the UN Vasily Nebenzya listens during a UN Security Council meeting at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: (L to R) British Ambassador to the United Nations Karen Pierce talks with United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, USA - APRIL 14:  Francois Delattre, Ambassador of France to the United Nations gives a speech during a UN Security Council meeting following the United States, United Kingdom and France attacks on chemical weapons positions in Syria at United Nations Headquarters in New York, United States on April 14, 2018.  (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley listens during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: (L to R) Russian Ambassador to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya talks with U.K. Ambassador to the United Nations Karen Pierce during a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres arrives for a United Nations Security Council emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: The United Nations Security Council holds an emergency meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley speaks during a UN Security Council meeting, at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL        (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley speaks during UN Security Council meeting, at United Nations Headquarters in New York, on April 14, 2018. The UN Security Council on Saturday opened a meeting at Russia's request to discuss military strikes carried out by the United States, France and Britain on Syria in response to a suspected chemical weapons attack. Russia circulated a draft resolution calling for condemnation of the military action, but Britain's ambassador said the strikes were 'both right and legal' to alleviate humanitarian suffering in Syria.  / AFP PHOTO / Hector RETAMAL / ALTERNATIVE CROP         (Photo credit should read HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 13:  Russia's United Nations (U.N.) Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia speaks to an aide at a U.N. Security Council emergency meeting on April 13, 2018 in New York City. The UN Security Council held the emergency meeting Friday at the request of Russia as it looks for support against the United States and U.S. allies from conducting  a military strike on Syria. President Donald Trump has threatened to conduct airstrikes against Syria following a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians in a town outside Damascus that was held by rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad's government.  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 14: United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley (top) speaks as Syrian ambassador to the United Nations Bashar Jaafari (bottom) looks on during a United Nations Security Council meeting concerning the situation in Syria, at United Nations headquarters, April 14, 2018 in New York City.  Yesterday the United States and European allies Britain and France launched airstrikes in Syria as punishment for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's suspected role in last week's chemical weapons attacks that killed upwards of 40 people. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 13:  A United Nations U.N. Security Council emergency meeting breaks up on April 13, 2018 in New York City. The UN Security Council held the emergency meeting Friday at the request of Russia as it looks for support against the United States and U.S. allies from conducting  a military strike on Syria. President Donald Trump has threatened to conduct airstrikes against Syria following a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians in a town outside Damascus that was held by rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad's government.  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 13:  Russia's United Nations (U.N.) Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia speaks to an aide at a U.N. Security Council emergency meeting on April 13, 2018 in New York City. The UN Security Council held the emergency meeting Friday at the request of Russia as it looks for support against the United States and U.S. allies from conducting  a military strike on Syria. President Donald Trump has threatened to conduct airstrikes against Syria following a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians in a town outside Damascus that was held by rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad's government.  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 13:  Russia's United Nations (U.N.) Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia speaks to the media after telling the U.N. Security Council in an emergency meeting that the United States, France and Britain were only interested in ousting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's government and containing Russia on April 13, 2018 in New York City. The UN Security Council held the emergency meeting Friday at the request of Russia as it looks for support against the United States and U.S. allies  from conducting  a military strike on Syria. President Donald Trump has threatened to conduct airstrikes against Syria following a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians in a town outside Damascus that was held by rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad's government.  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
NEW YORK, NY - APRIL 13: A United Nations U.N. Security Council emergency meeting breaks up on April 13, 2018 in New York City. The UN Security Council held the emergency meeting Friday at the request of Russia as it looks for support against the United States and U.S. allies from conducting  a military strike on Syria. President Donald Trump has threatened to conduct airstrikes against Syria following a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians in a town outside Damascus that was held by rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad's government.  (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
Up Next
See Gallery
BACK TO SLIDE
Although the civil war in Syria has gone on since 2011, the U.S. did not begin launching airstrikes against IS until September 2014, and American troops did not go into Syria until 2015.
McGurk, whose resignation is effective Dec. 31, was planning to leave the job in mid-February after a U.S.-hosted meeting of foreign ministers from the coalition countries, but he felt he could continue no longer after Trump's decision to withdraw from Syria and Mattis' resignation, according to the official.
Trump declaration of a victory over IS has been roundly contradicted by his own experts' assessments, and his decision to pull troops out was widely denounced by members of Congress, who called his action rash and dangerous.
Mattis, perhaps the most respected foreign policy official in the administration, announced on Thursday that he will leave by the end of February. He told Trump in a letter that he was departing because "you have a right to have a Secretary of Defense whose views are better aligned with yours."
The withdrawal decision will fulfill Trump's goal of bringing troops home from Syria, but military leaders have pushed back for months, arguing that the IS group remains a threat and could regroup in Syria's long-running civil war. U.S. policy has been to keep troops in place until the extremists are eradicated.
Among officials' key concerns is that a U.S. pullout will leave U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces vulnerable to attacks by Turkey, the Syrian government and remaining IS fighters. The SDF, a Kurdish-led force, is America's only military partner in Syria
A second official said McGurk on Friday was pushing for the U.S. to allow the SDF to reach out to troops allied with Syrian President Bashar Assad's government for protection. McGurk argued that America had a moral obligation to help prevent the allied fighters from being slaughtered by Turkey, which considers the SDF an enemy.
McGurk said at a State Department briefing on Dec. 11 that "it would be reckless if we were just to say, 'Well, the physical caliphate is defeated, so we can just leave now.' I think anyone who's looked at a conflict like this would agree with that."
A week before that, Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. had a long way to go in training local Syrian forces to prevent a resurgence of IS and stabilize Syria. He said it would take 35,000 to 40,000 local troops in northeastern Syria to maintain security over the long term, but only about 20 percent of that number had been trained.
McGurk, 45, previously served as a deputy assistant secretary of state for Iraq and Iran, and during the negotiations for the landmark Iran nuclear deal by the Obama administration, led secret side talks with Tehran on the release of Americans imprisoned there.
McGurk, was briefly considered for the post of ambassador to Iraq after having served as a senior official covering Iraq and Afghanistan during President George W. Bush's administration.
A former Supreme Court law clerk to the late Chief Justice William Rehnquist, McGurk worked as a lawyer for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion and joined Bush's National Security Council staff, where in 2007 and 2008, he was the lead U.S. negotiator on security agreements with Iraq.
Taking over for now for McGurk will be his deputy, retired Lt. Gen. Terry Wolff, who served three tours of active duty in Iraq.
Jim Jeffrey, a veteran diplomat who was appointed special representative for Syria engagement in August, is expected to stay in his position, officials said.
IS militants still hold a string of villages and towns along the Euphrates River in eastern Syria, where they have resisted weeks of attacks by the U.S.-supported Syrian Democratic Forces to drive them out. The pocket is home to about 15,000 people, among them 2,000 IS fighters, according to U.S. military estimates.
But that figure could be as high as 8,000 militants, if fighters hiding out in the deserts south of the Euphrates River are also counted, according to according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the conflict through networks of local informants. Military officials have also made it clear that IS fighters fleeing Euphrates River region have found refuge in other areas of the country, fueling concerns that they could regroup and rise again.
___
More from Aol.com:
The Latest from our Partners
The Latest from Healthgrades
More to Explore
From Our Partners
Get breaking news and big stories on your desktop.
Notify Me
6h
If you change your mind, here's how to allow notifications:
If you’d like to allow notifications, please go into your browser’s Website or Privacy settings and set the permissions for AOL.com to “Allow.”
Chat live about Trump's presidency
