Jack Posobiec: the link connecting France, Trump and Russia
New York’s Flashpoint and Tokyo-based Trend Micro have shared intelligence that suggests that the hacking group known variously as Advanced Persistent Threat 28, Fancy Bear and Pawn Storm was responsible for Macron’s leaks. The group has been linked with the GRU, the Russian military intelligence directorate. EFE/Eric Feferberg
Jack Posobiec: the link connecting France, Trump and Russia
The head of department of The Rebel TV in Washington and Philadelphian supporter of Donald Trump, Jack Posobiec, has been the French headline for several days, having been the first to spread the “MacronLeaks”.
by Yamily Habib
The internal documents of the electoral campaign of Emmanuel Macron, president-elect of France, were the subject of a cyber attack during the last electoral week, and its dissemination was carried out on May 5, through an anglophone forum, before being immediately spread on Twitter by an "American militant, near the far right," according to the Huffington Post France . Belgian social media analyst Nicolas Vanderbiest said that after the publication of the documents in the 4Chan forum, frequented by surfers close to the American alt-right, Jack Posobiec was the first to share the data to his 100,000 followers on Twitter, inaugurating the hashtag "#MacronLeaks".
Flashpoint of New York and Trend Micro based in Tokyo have shared intelligence suggesting that the group of hackers known as Advanced Persistent Threat 28, Fancy Bear and Pawn Storm was responsible for filtering Emmanuel Macron’s documents. The group has been linked to the GRU, the Russian Military Intelligence Directorate, according to The Guardian .
Days before the publication of the documents, Jack Posobiec had been active in social media against the candidate Macron, pressing the rumors about an alleged tax evasion and assuring that the now president attacked the journalists to evade his responsibility, according to the newspaper Le Monde.
One day before the election, Posobiec requested on Twitter to speak in front of the French parliament in an open session on #MacronLeaks.
According to the French media, Posobiec represents a digital site ( The Rebel ) openly supportive of Trump and Le Pen, which often disseminates inaccurate data.
"The militant appears as part of the 'Slavright', a far-right movement mainly located in Eastern Europe, considered racist and white supremacist”, according to the French media.
In Trump’s forefront
Hours before disseminating the hacked information of Emmanuel Macron's campaign, Posobiec had been tagged in a photo along with former editor Breitbart and one of the main right-wing figures who supported Donald Trump, Milo Yinanopoulos, on a Caption that read "Happy #CincoDeMilo".
For its part, Reuters published yesterday that Posobiec has received access to the White House, from the Trump Administration.
Posobiec, " attended the daily press briefing on Tuesday and later broadcast video from the White House grounds with positive commentary on President Donald Trump's abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey”, explains the media.
Posobiec would have requested temporary credentials in April, but he is currently in the process of requesting a permanent pass.
The cyber attack of the French president-elect has worried the international security community since it could imply a connection between Russian digital intelligence organizations and public figures of the American extreme right.
Through social networks, Posobiec and William Craddick, for example, founder and editor-in-chief of Disobedient Media have been perceived as close to each other. Craddick would have warned that French documents had been leaked minutes before it was made public.
According to Reuters , "two US intelligence officials said that they are increasingly confident that hackers with connections to the Russian government played a role in the French election.” Similarly, US intelligence agencies have also concluded “hacking attacks on the Democratic Party and 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's campaign were part of a Russian-backed effort to help Republican Trump win the presidency”.
ALSO LISTED IN
Advertisement
Advertisement
