A military judge on Tuesday dismissed two charges against decorated veteran, Edward Gallagher (pictured), 39, who is accu
A military judge on Tuesday dismissed two charges against decorated veteran, Edward Gallagher (pictured), 39, who is accused of murdering a 15-year-old Afghan boy with his knife in 2017
Three days after a military judge  dismissed two charges against a Navy SEAL   accused of murdering a 15-year-old Afghan terrorist with a knife, the decorated veteran’s brother has called upon President Trump to intervene.
Edward Gallagher is currently being held in a military prison in California amid accusations he repeatedly plunged a knife into the wounded body of a young ISIS fighter in 2017 and fired sniper rounds at innocent civilians in Iraq.  
On Tuesday, Navy Capt Aaron Rugh, the judge in the court martial, announced that Gallagher, 39, would no longer face trial for allegedly performing a reenlistment ceremony next to the militant’s corpse or for operating a drone over the corpse, according to The San Diego Tribune.
The veteran, however, still faces charges for premeditated murder for stabbing the teen and aggravated assault for firing rounds at civilians. 
Gallagher also faces an allegation he posed for a photo with the militant’s body. 
He could serve a life sentence if convicted of the current charges against him. 
His brother, Sean Gallagher, wrote in an op-ed provided to Fox News asking Trump to ‘review Eddie’s case, reunite him with his family, and place him back on the front lines where he belongs.’
Sean said during a Fox & Friends segment Friday: ‘We need the intervention of the President of the United States, sadly.’
He added: ‘If you want to know what a real Navy SEAL is like, if you want to know what a real warrior is like, look at someone like Eddie who literally just faced down death.
‘He just had a battle with ISIS and in the midst of that after defeating the enemy on the same battle he risked his life, he swears before man and God that he will do it again, that he will stand his post and defend the country.
‘There are lawyers back home in the Navy that wanted to charge him for a war crime, for that… that’s honor… that’s bravery.’  
Scroll down for video 
The veteran’s brother, Sean Gallagher, (seen above) wrote in an op-ed provided to Fox News asking Trump to review Eddie’s case
Sean said during a Fox & Friends segment: ‘We need the intervention of the President of the United States’
The chief petty officer’s platoon commander, Lt Jacob Portier, is also facing court martial charges alleging that he was aware of the complaints against Gallagher, but failed to report them.
Portier has also been charged with conducting Gallagher’s reenlistment ceremony. 
Last week, seven Navy SEALs were granted immunity to testify against Gallagher. 
Up to 13 additional witnesses are expected to testify against the soldier whose trial begins on February 19. 
During a motion hearing on January 25, prosecutors said witnesses told NCIS investigators that Gallagher bragged about killing up to 200 people – ‘three a day’ he allegedly said – during his 2017 deployment to Mosul, Iraq, according to the Tribune. 
Prosecutors also revealed at the time that they had recovered a knife that tested positive for DNA, although they did not reveal whose DNA was found on the weapon – or say conclusively that it was related to the incident in question. 
On Tuesday, Navy Capt Aaron Rugh, the judge in the court martial, announced that Gallagher (left and right), 39, will no longer face trial for allegedly performing a reenlistment ceremony next to the militant’s corpse or for operating a drone over the corpse 
Gallagher (pictured) still faces charges for premeditated murder for stabbing the teen and aggravated assault for firing rounds at civilians 
In November last year, prosecutors presented accounts from several other SEALs in Gallagher’s platoon describing his behavior as reckless and bloodthirsty.
They said he fired into civilian crowds, gunned down a girl walking along a riverbank and an old man carrying a water jug, and threatened to kill fellow SEALs if they reported his actions.
In May last year, Iraqi forces in Mosul caught an Islamic State fighter aged in his teens, who was left battered and bloody from the combat. 
Investigators allege while the teen was receiving medical treatment from SEAL medics, Gallagher walked up and stabbed him in his neck and side with a knife, killing the fighter. 
Then, they said, he posed for photographs with the fighter’s body, holding his head in one hand and his blade in the other – and sent one of the images to a fellow SEAL with the caption: ‘I got him with my hunting knife’. 
Gallagher is a married father-of-three and a highly lauded special warfare operator who has racked up numerous awards during his eight tours of duty. 
After his latest tour, fighting Islamic State militants in Iraq, he was named the top platoon leader in SEAL Team 7 and nominated for the Silver Star, the military’s third-highest honor. 
In November last year, prosecutors presented accounts from several other SEALs in Gallagher’s (pictured) platoon describing his behavior as reckless and bloodthirsty
A charge sheet shows Gallagher is accused of ‘stabbing a male person in the neck and body with a knife’
He fought in Iraq and Afghanistan several times and has been a Navy Seal for 14 years. 
His brother Sean also defended him in an interview with Fox News back in November.
‘This investigation is not about justice and the truth, it’s about a win,’ Sean told the network at the time.
‘A SEAL is a shiny, golden nail where if you take them down it makes you look good,’ he added.
The Navy has charged Gallagher with premeditated murder, attempted murder and nearly a dozen other offenses, including obstruction of justice and bringing ‘discredit upon the armed forces’. 
He has pleaded not guilty to the charges. 
Related
Newer Post
Older Post
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Subscribe to receive inspiration, ideas, and news in your inbox
Type something and Enter
