Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Donald Trump.
President Donald Trump reportedly told friends at his     swanky Mar-a-Lago resort "You all just got a lot richer," hours     after signing the GOP's massive tax bill.
Republicans have touted the measure as a boon to     working class families, and Trump told supporters at a November     rally that the bill would hurt him and other wealthier     Americans.
But an analysis from the non-partisan Tax Policy Center     found that over time, corporations and wealthy Americans will     see the most benefits from the tax code overhaul.
Hours after signing the GOP's massive tax bill on Friday,   President Donald Trump told friends at his Mar-a-Lago resort in   Florida that they "all just got a lot richer," CBS News reported .
In addition to regularly receiving Trump, his family members, and   foreign diplomats, the swanky resort plays host to affluent   clientele and has an initiation fee of $200,000 with annual dues   of up to $14,000.
The $1.5 trillion tax bill Trump signed overhauls the tax code   for individuals and businesses, eliminates the Affordable Care   Act's individual mandate, and opens parts of Alaska up to oil   drilling.
The GOP has repeatedly touted the measure as a boon to working   American families, and Trump called the tax cut bill the "biggest   in history." He also told supporters at a Missouri rally in   November that the bill would hurt wealthier Americans.
"This is not good for me," he said at the time. "Me, it's not so   - I have some very wealthy friends. Not so happy with me, but   that's OK."
"You know, I keep hearing [Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer]:   'This is for the wealthy,'" Trump added. "Well, if it is, my   friends don't know about it."
While most Americans will see some kind of tax cut from the bill,   the non-partisan Tax Policy Center estimates that over time, most   benefits will skew toward wealthier Americans. According to a TPC   analysis, 65.8% of the total federal tax benefit will eventually   go to the top quintile of earners.
Critics of the bill, like Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, also   pointed out that the legislation is more beneficial for   corporations than for individuals.
During a Sunday interview on CNN , Sanders told   "State of the Union" host Jake Tapper that tax cuts for the   middle class were good, but that they should have been made   permanent.
"But what the Republicans did is made the tax breaks for   corporations permanent, the tax breaks for the middle class   temporary," Sanders said.
Share This Post
* Copyright © 2018 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
