February 10, 2019
Bedford Park, the Bronx, New York
Tom D’Angora called to me:  “You are wearing that hat as a kind of irony!”  He was, of course, referring to the fact that his show attacked Trump twice and I was wearing the hat in support of his attacks.  That’s when I walked over to him and said, “No, I am wearing my hat in support of Trump.  I’m a Trump supporter.”  That was it.  He totally lost it.  He exploded with rage.
Minutes after exiting The Kirk Theatre in Manhattan, New York, on the evening of February 9, 2019,  Jose (my husband) and I were still shaking, and not from the thrill of an exhilarating performance  of “Naked Boys Singing!” but from the verbal abuse and rage targeted at us from Producer Tom D’Angora who immediately took note of us as we rose from our seats, to make our exit with the crowd, the show having ended.
He spied the fact that I had taken my MAGA hat from my carrying bag and placed it on my head.  He caught my eye and called to me above the people who were leaving, “You are wearing that as a kind of irony!” 
I walked over to where he was, not knowing who he was except that he was with the theater, and quietly told him, “No, I am a Trump supporter.”  Immediately, he was incensed, he became angry, he was triggered senseless. 
He told me he is the Producer and I would never be allowed into the theater again.  I insisted I could purchase a ticket for another show, if I chose.  He insisted he would never allow it.  I was forever banned from The Kirk Theatre (or whatever realm of The Kirk Theatre he managed).  
His rage was endless – literally – he did not stop at me until I had left the particular theater (within The Kirk Theatre) where the performance was staged. 
So this is the Theater in New York City these days.  How unoriginal the Producer Tom D’Angora, to turn his naked show into naked nukes on Trump.  So unoriginal, so dumb!  Actually, originality today would call for a show that could be just that – a show.   But no, Producer Tom D’Angora, neither original nor outstanding, has become political, proselytizing and prostituting  his boys, when all we wanted to see was, well, you know – not Trump, not Pence, not Obama, not Hillary – just the boys in all their glory with lyrics as fun as the boys themselves.  But Producer Tom D’Angora wants to be political.  He needs, instead, to produce  the LBJ play (“All the Way”) .  Now that was a play (and I saw it):  all political and no naked boys, a perfect combination.  D’Angora is confused.  He may have the right political lines – I will grant him his opinion and free speech, but he placed his political lines in the wrong play. 
A few years back, Jose and I had seen “Naked Boys Singing” for the first time – before there ever was a President Trump.  On this occasion, we were attending the show with three friends.  We had recommended the show to our friends and they all agreed it would be a fun night, so there we were, with anticipation. 
The show, this time around, had a political twist in two places, something completely foreign to the show originally.
The lyrics of the first number of the show took a huge punch at Trump and Pence!  Great!  Just what Jose and I came for.  It was a downer.  Why does the show have to be weaponized against the present administration?  A second attack against Trump came when a performer – singing his number on falling in love – wore a bright red shirt with HUGE letters on it that read “LOVE TRUMPS HATE.”  The second attack on the administration.  This was all unexpected.  Not a football fan myself, I began to feel – really feel — what football fans have felt with their star players “taking a knee.” 
The producer was “taking a knee,” too, of some kind, getting in the act as it were. 
So, true to my practice, just before entering the theater to see “Naked Boys Singing,” I took off my MAGA hat and placed it out of sight, putting it in my carrying bag.  And I had no intention of wearing it again until after leaving the theater.  That’s what I do.
But it became obvious to me that if a show like “Naked Boys Singing” can get all up in my face politically, then, I’ll just put on my hat after the show and wear it proudly as I leave the theater.
So I did. 
Of course, I shouldn’t have been surprised.  Acting and actors in New York City have taken the “high road” of slaying our President in Bryant Park every night during the warm summer evenings – I saw it for myself; small acting groups turning all political and anti-Trump in their short original plays – I saw it for myself; and not to forget Hamilton and the bullying of Pence in person, right there on Broadway –  oh! yes! speaking to power, how brilliant!  I didn’t see it for myself; but it was all in the news.
So this is the Theater in New York City these days.  How unoriginal the Producer Tom D’Angora, to turn his naked show into naked nukes on Trump.  So unoriginal, so dumb!  Actually, originality today would call for a show that could be just that – a show.   But no, Producer Tom D’Angora, neither original nor outstanding, has become political, proselytizing and prostituting his boys, when all we wanted to see was, well, you know – not Trump, not Pence, not Obama, not Hillary – just the boys in all their glory with lyrics as fun as the boys themselves.  But Producer Tom D’Angora wants to be political.  He needs, instead, to produce  the LBJ play (“All the Way”) .  Now that was a play (and I saw it):  all political and no naked boys, a perfect combination.  D’Angora is confused.  He may have the right political lines – I will grant him his opinion and free speech, but he placed his political lines in the wrong play.
Photo Gallery:  Tom D’Angora
Now, back to the MAGA hat!  My practice is NOT to wear the MAGA hat in establishments where people are stationary – like restaurants, or theaters (I do wear it as I ride the subway and buses).  I have no desire to make people look at my MAGA hat for 45 minutes straight while they sit somewhat across from me at a restaurant.  I respect their space.  They didn’t come to a dinner or restaurant to be confronted with a MAGA hat.  
So, true to my practice, just before entering the theater to see Naked Boys Singing, I took off my MAGA hat and placed it out of sight, putting it in my carrying bag.  And I had no intention of wearing it again until after leaving the theater.  That’s what I do.
But it became obvious to me that if a show like “Naked Boys Singing” can get all up in my face politically, then, I’ll just put on my hat after the show and wear it proudly as I leave the theater.
So I did.  I was seated in Row G.  The first rows were exiting, the rows behind me, too, as I fumbled through my carrying bag for my hat.  Actually, there were not a lot a people – but a handful for sure – that were exiting when I was putting on my inner and outer coats and my MAGA hat.  And then it happened!
Tom D’Angora called to me:  “You are wearing that hat as a kind of irony!”  He was, of course, referring to the fact that his show attacked Trump twice and I was wearing the hat in support of his attacks.  That’s when I walked over to him and said, “No, I am wearing my hat in support of Trump.  I’m a Trump supporter.”  That was it.  He totally lost it.  He exploded with rage.
I tried to speak around his anger, telling him twice what I just wrote above, that I had no intention of wearing the hat in the theater, but since he found it necessary to speak his political views to me from the stage of Naked Boys Singing, I would exit with my MAGA hat on to let whomever know that I am in support of Trump.  Jose was right there with me and Jose had as much to say in our defense as I did.
D’Angora’s anger took him all over the map.  “Hillary Clinton follows me on Twitter,” he burst in rage.  “Hillary won the election,” he fumed.  “Russia stole the election” (I thought he would have a hernia, he was carrying so much hate!)  Or said something like that.  Again, he was in a complete rage and he kept driving home his decree that I was banned from ever entering his theater again.
There was, in the end, a sense of self satisfaction.  I was civil and yet I completely stood up for myself.  I did not come to the show to hear anti-Trump speech.  That’s not what the show ever was about.  I came to be entertained, not politically engaged, and certainly not attacked for my views. In the end, D’Angora was more upset than me.  What discomfort I suffered at the outset of the show with the first number attacking Trump, D’Angora was now suffering – even more so – that I had worn, following his show, a MAGA hat, right there in his theater, for all the world to see.
After all, all the world is a stage.  Move over D’Angora.  There are other actors on this worldwide stage, and we can shout right back at you, without saying a word.  Just by wearing a MAGA hat!     
The events of this blog took place at The Kirk Theatre, Manhattan, New York, on the evening of February 9, 2019.  Steve Parelli (right in photo) and his husband Jose Ortiz (left in photo) attended the performance of “Naked Boys Singing” with three of their friends, two from New York City and a third one, a Couch Surfer staying with them in their home, from Mexico.  A fourth friend was in attendance and after the show all six went out together for something to eat.  The four friends witnessed, to varying degrees, the events in this blog.  This blog was written by Rev. Stephen Parelli in the wee hours of Sunday, February 10, 2019, in his apartment in Bedford Park the Bronx, and was immediately published to the Internet.
You can leave a comment via Facebook, and/or, at the very bottom of this web page, you can “Leave a Reply” with the Webmaster of this site who, after reviewing it, will post your comment on this web page for public viewing.
Share this:
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search
Search
Tags
Recent Comments
Send to Email Address
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
