stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No complicated set-up. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Cancel
Unsubscribe
Working...
SubscribeSubscribedUnsubscribe
240K
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 5, 2019
Pet Shop Boys' new four-track “Agenda” EP is out now via digital services: https://petshopboys.lnk.to/AgendaID
The first song on the EP, “Give stupidity a chance”, can now be listened to on streaming services, download stores and on YouTube and is described by Neil Tennant as “a satirical song about the poor quality of political leadership in the modern world”. Find the song on digital services and YouTube via the links below.
A CD of “Agenda” is also available to pre-order exclusively with Pet Shop Boys’ once-a-year publication “Annually" which has been announced today and will be published on April 12th. Find out more at the link below. A 12-inch vinyl EP of the four tracks will also be commercially released on April 12th.
Pre-order “Annually” with “Agenda” CD: https://petshopboys.lnk.to/AnnuallyID
Pre-order “Agenda” 12-inch vinyl: https://petshopboys.lnk.to/AgendaVinylID
Listen to “Give stupidity a chance": https://petshopboys.lnk.to/GSACID
Discussing the EP, Neil Tennant said: “It contains three satirical songs and one rather sad song. I think it’s because of the times we’re living through.” The four tracks were produced by Tim Powell and Pet Shop Boys and recorded towards the end of last year. They will not be included on Pet Shop Boys’ next album which is being produced by Stuart Price and is due for release in the autumn.
Follow Pet Shop Boys:
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Mix - Pet Shop Boys - Give stupidity a chance (lyric video)YouTube
Add to
Loading playlists...
