+
Could Europe be witnessing a MIGA (Make Italy Great Again) moment under the nationalist policies of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Matteo Salvini?
According to Fox News , Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Matteo Salvini , who has led the charge in pushing back against Italy accepting migrants coming across the Mediterranean from Libya and has all but closed the ports to the boats, hailed the numbers as a success.
“The data deny those who say that the Democratic Party had blocked the landings, we are doing more and better,” he said. “For the first time, returns are greater than arrivals”.
But putting Italy first didn’t sit well with other European leaders who, like all liberals, fail to understand why a nation should worry about its own welfare before others.
Italy’s hardline stance has infuriated other European leaders, including French President Emmanuel Macron, who have criticized the approach and called on Italy to open its ports and accept more migrants.
So far, that push has had little success. Last week, the government told an NGO migrant rescue boat carrying 47 migrants heading to the Italian coast that it would not be allowed to land and that it should go to France instead — although it would first offer medical supplies to the boat.
“After that, I invite it to point the bow towards Marseilles and land people on French soil instead of waiting unnecessarily in Italian waters for days,” Salvini’s coalition counterpart Luigi Di Maio said via Facebook.
According to The Daily Wire who pulled their data from the Italian Statistics Bureau (ISTAT), Italy’s population will drop a total of 10% between 2017 and 2065 — 60.6 million to 54.1 million. “Taking into account the variability associated with demographic events, the population estimate by 2065 ranges from a minimum of 46.4 million to a maximum of 62,” they report. “The chance of a population increase scenario by 2065 is 9%.”
Simon Daily - February 21, 2019
John Wayne aka The Duke was born in 1907 and died in 1979. He lived through WWI all the way…
Daphne Moon - February 21, 2019
The media was dead silent over The March For Life rally in Washington DC this week. In fact, most of…
16 views
Daphne Moon - February 21, 2019
Brooklyn Nine-Nine Actor, Terry Crews take a huge gulp of the kool-aid and blames the Jussie Smollett situation on 'toxic…
Our Latest
February 21, 2019
February 20, 2019
