Trump’s Approval Rating Soars to 50 Percent
News Commentary
By Guest Author | February 8, 2019 12:11PM
As the country continues to react to Donald Trump’s State of the Union address from Tuesday night, a new poll shows his speech resonated with many Americans.
Trump’s approval rating shot to 50 percent after his address according to new Rasmussen Reports polling, showing that viewers are standing behind his ideas for the economy, border security,  foreign policy, and his overall legislative agenda.
“The Rasmussen Reports daily Presidential Tracking Poll for Friday shows that 50% of Likely U.S. Voters approve of President Trump’s job performance. Forty-nine percent (49%) disapprove,” Rasmussen observes.
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders touted the poll on Twitter.
A CBS News poll found 80% of independents approved of President @realDonaldTrump ’s State of the Union. Americans clearly favor the booming Trump economy over socialism that would destroy it.
More from The Political Insider
“A CBS News poll found 80% of independents approved of President Trump’s State of the Union. Americans clearly favor the booming Trump economy over socialism that would destroy it,” Sanders wrote.
Eighty percent of independents is a significant figure. While the majority of registered Republicans and Democrats can usually be expected to vote the party line, independents can play a major role in elections precisely because their vote is up for grabs. These voters can swing either way.
As the left and media continue to portray the President in the worst possible light, this polling shows that at least half the country favors Trump’s agenda.
This could be important in successfully implementing his agenda. If Trump’s political opponents believe that the public, and in some cases, their constituents, are more in line with the President on items like the border wall, economics, and other matters, obviously this would play a role in getting those things done.
Some have noted that Rasmussen tends to be one of the polls more favorable to Trump, but this new number matters precisely because this particular poll has had the President at lower numbers since the government shutdown.
Everyone telling me "BUT RASMUSSEN," please know I am well aware that Rasmussen is Trump's best poll by a lot.
That said, Trump has been in the mid 40s on Rasmussen since the shutdown, so the move to 50 is noteworthy even if taken in the context of Rasmussen's heavy GOP lean. https://t.co/pZxuMEt2Q3
“Everyone telling me “BUT RASMUSSEN,” please know I am well aware that Rasmussen is Trump’s best poll by a lot,” writes “NumbersMuncher” Josh Jordan on Twitter. “That said, Trump has been in the mid 40s on Rasmussen since the shutdown, so the move to 50 is noteworthy even if taken in the context of Rasmussen’s heavy GOP lean.”
With 50 percent approval , it’s also worth noting that 49 percent disapprove.
Trump Job Approval:
Read this Next on ThePoliticalInsider.com
Log in via a social account
6 Comments
ktuncia
says:
Grizz
says:
To those 49% who do not feel there is an economic recovery since Trump became POTUS I woild say for them to return the fat tax refunds they received back to the government . . .
It is pitiful that party politics has become such a “unionized” trype of organization that includes blind “faith” and strong arm tactics while continuing to widen the breach. The real losers will be the normal citizens, not those manipulating the voters . . .
What's Your Reaction?
Alert Me + Incremental
 
