Fill 2 Copy 11
Deborah Haynes, foreign affairs editor
Ending the nuclear threat posed by North Korea is the foreign policy challenge Donald Trump has most invested in personally.
But ending the near 18-year war in Afghanistan could be the overseas goal his administration has a better chance - or perhaps a less slim chance - of achieving.
Talks between US officials and the Taliban have been taking place, with Zalmay Khalilzad, the American special envoy who is leading the effort on the US side, setting July as the desired time frame for a peace agreement.
Image: Mr Khalilzad cautioned last week that there is still 'a lot of work' to do
This is a slippage from a previous prediction of April but still an indication of a real belief that some kind of deal can be struck.
President Trump has told his military chiefs he wants to halve the number of US military personnel in Afghanistan - the US contingent is about 14,000 servicemen and women.
Any settlement with the Taliban would have to involve the departure of all US, British and other NATO-led forces from the country that are deployed as part of a mission to offer advice, training and support to the Afghan security forces.
Image: The US hope is for a peace agreement with the Taliban ahead of Afghan presidential elections
A footprint of largely US, British and other coalition special forces personnel would most likely be allowed to stay to continue counter-terrorism operations against al Qaeda elements in Afghanistan as well as fighters belonging to an offshoot of Islamic State.
Attempts to end the Taliban insurgency through dialogue have been taking place alongside offensive military operations for years without success.
But the recent communication has offered the first, genuine glimmer of hope that some kind of lasting accommodation can be made.
Image: Coalition forces could stay to continue counter-terrorism operations
For the people of Afghanistan and their security forces this cannot come soon enough.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani - whose government has notably been shut out of the US-Taliban dialogue - revealed last month that 45,000 members of the Afghan police and military have been killed since he took power in 2014.
An end to the war would also be cheered by the 39 members of the NATO-led international force taking part in the Resolute Support training and advising mission in Afghanistan, with countries such as Italy and Germany thought to be keen to pull out their troops already.
Image: Mr Ghani revealed 45,000 Afghan police and military officers have been killed since 2014
The US has struggled to convince many NATO allies to commit sufficient military personnel to the operation ever since it replaced a long-running combat mission at the end of 2014.
President Trump in 2017 said he would surge more US troops into Afghanistan - the uplift was thought to have been some 3,500 troops.
The move put pressure on other NATO members to follow suit, prompting the UK for example to increase its contribution by 440 soldiers to 1,100 military personnel.
However, Mr Trump's latest plan to halve the US presence will make it harder for other allies to continue to retain even their current troop levels let alone commit more - an issue that is set to feature at a twice-yearly NATO defence ministers' meeting in Brussels this week.
Ending the near 18-year war in Afghanistan could be the overseas goal his [Mr Trump's] administration has a better chance - or perhaps a less slim chance - of achieving
Deborah Haynes
Russia - as is increasingly the case in global affairs - is trying to play an instrumental role in the peace process. A meeting took place in Moscow last week between Taliban envoys and a group of Afghan opposition politicians.
The US hope is for a peace agreement to be reached with the Taliban ahead of Afghan presidential elections, which are due to take place in July.
Mr Khalilzad cautioned last week that there is still "a lot of work" to do.
However there remains a chance that Afghans will finally be able to live in peace.
Sky Views is a series of comment pieces by Sky News editors and correspondents, published every morning.
Previously on Sky Views: Adam Boulton - Why I've spent 30 years at Sky News
© 2019 Sky UK
We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Close
Close
