Donald Trump Has A Doppelganger Who Is A Spanish Potato Farmer - LADbible
Most Popular
24 days ago 50K  Shares
Donald Trump Has A Doppelganger Who Is A Spanish Potato Farmer
Mon Jan 07 2019 15:59:04 GMT+0000 (GMT)
Mon Jan 07 2019 16:17:34 GMT+0000 (GMT)
Rebecca Shepherd
Powered by
Folk wisdom has it that each and every single one of us has a doppelganger somewhere out there - and if you're thinking, 'That LADbible journalist has a real look of Gal Gadot ', don't worry, I get it all the time.
Enough about me - more about US President, Donald Trump. You may be thinking by this stage, 'But he's the shy, retiring type who does all he can to avoid the headlines. What news could there be? Tell me more, Gal Godot.'
Well, his doppelganger has been found, even though he tried as hard as he could to keep her under wraps.
Yes, you read right: we said 'her' and let us introduce you:
Uncanny, right?
Dolores Leis Antelo, who is now better known as 'Señora Trump', lives with her husband on a farm in Cabana de Bergantiños, Spain. She's been there for 40 years, minding her own business and shit.
Well, that was until she was photographed by journalist Paula Vázquez, who turned her into a viral sensation - and Dolores doesn't even have a computer or mobile phone.
'That's a bit mean, Gal,' you're probably thinking. 'How does Dolores herself feel about this?' In fact, she willingly posed as the picture was taken for a farming article - and it turns out she's actually pretty amused by her bizarre brush with fame.
Speaking to Spanish publication Faro de Virgo , Paula Vázquez explained that her pal took the snap but she liked it so much she posted it on to Instagram, where it racked up more than 9,000 likes .
She said: "Dolores was going to her farm to pick some cabbages. So I talked with her for a while, while a girlfriend was taking pictures of her, and I took the opportunity to take another photo with my cellphone."
Vázquez also added that Dolores is 'charmed' to find out that she looks just like Trump.
Another Spanish newspaper, La Voz de Galicia , reported that Dolores told them: "My photo seems to have travelled far. I say it is because of the colour of my hair."
People have taken to social media defending the potato farmer. One said: "Please don't insult this potato farmer. Thank you," while another added: "Well, she's doing something he's NEVER done.......working a for her living!!"
A third commented: "Don't degrade a strong woman like that! She looks less orange and wears the outfit better anyways."
Anyway, I'm out now - y'know back to being Wonder Woman and shit.
Featured Image Credit:     Instagram/trintadenovembro/PA
Rebecca Shepherd is a Journalist at LADbible. She graduated from the University of Central Lancashire with a First Class BA in Journalism.  Becky previously worked as Chief Reporter at Cavendish Press, supplying news and feature stories to national newspapers and women's magazines.
Powered by
Next Up
