Search
Home Latest News 2019 Trump Unbelievably Gloats About National Enquirer’s Takedown Of ‘Jeff Bozo’s’ Marriage
In a jaw-dropping tweet President Donald Trump touted coverage by an unidentified Washington Post “competitor” — though clearly the National Enquirer — of the story behind the breakup of Amazon  chief executive  Jeff Bezos ’ marriage. But Trump called him “Jeff Bozo.”
The dig on Sunday was particularly astonishing because National Enquirer chief executive David Pecker allegedly arranged to pay porn star Stormy Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal to “catch and kill” their stories about their alleged affairs with Trump. The hush money, allegedly directed by Trump and provided through his former personal attorney Michael Cohen , is being investigated as a possible unreported and illegal campaign contribution.
The Enquirer’s parent company, American Media, admitted to federal prosecutors that it had paid McDougal $150,000 to “suppress” her story with the express intention of boosting Trump’s chances to win the presidency . Pecker has been given immunity to cooperate with investigators.
Bezos, who owns The Washington Post, and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, announced in a statement Wednesday that they had decided to divorce after 25 years of marriage . The Enquirer later that day published a story online about Bezos’ alleged relationship with former Fox TV personality Laura Sanchez and followed up with a longer print version of a piece it touted as a major investigative article.
On Thursday, Trump seemed almost sensitive about the situation, and told reporters of Bezos and the divorce: “I wish him luck. It’s gonna be a beauty.” 
Recommended For You
1-click wordpress automation software
But his tone was different Sunday as he gloated about the Enquirer’s coverage of Bezos. He had nothing to say about the Enquirer’s total miss on the Daniels — and McDougal — story. 
The irony was not lost on Twitter.
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
Recommended
LiteApp Studio 2.0 - [Annual License] [LAUNCHING ON JAN 7,  2019 - JAN 13, 2019] NEW AI Software AUTOMATICALLY Creates Amazing Mobile Apps from ANY Website URL in Minutes, Works on All Browsers AND Can Be Instantly Downloaded and Shared Through Social Media, Text, Email and Q Code, Without Need
Sellin Messenger Commercial 1st Ever Facebook Messenger Sales Automation Software! Let Messenger Chat - Engage, Sell Products to Your Website and Facebook Visitors and Handle  Support On Autopilot Even While You Sleep Sell Products or Services in 1 Click with Upsells via Fb messenger an
Lingo Blaster 30 Day Money Back Guarantee
SociLead Messenger - OTO2 Sync. Page’s Messenger Leads (Auto Sync Available) Lead Grouping Send Bulk Message to Leads Multi-page Bulk Message Campaign Multi-group Bulk Message Campaign  Custom Bulk Message Campaign  Full Report of Campaign (Delivery/Unsuccessful)
PLR Sales Funnels - Combo Package - Upsell (1 Package) Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
Socifeed COMMERCIAL Vizully COMMERCIAL "BACKDOOR" Exclusive ONE-TIME Deal
Moto Theme DFY Premium Service Here's Your Ultimate Turn-Key Solution, Ready To Set Up Your WordPress Sites, And Relieve You From All Your Workload And Team Management Headaches!
Video Chief UK Agency Profit $500 - $1,000 Per Video By Leveraging One of The Largest Library of Pre-Made Videos, Script Templates, VoiceOver Templates And More…Instantly Access Over 1200 High-Converting Templates Spread Across More Than A Dozen Of The Hottest Niches!
GDPR Suite PRO New upgrade to have access to more templates and integrate with your autoresponders
SQZin Pro Silver Generate Qualified Leads From Popular Content  with Your Call-To-Action Overlay Without Having To Write A Single Word!|  Squeeze – Share – Profit! You know that content is king and that high-quality content leads to the best conversions.
LaunchShark Volume 2 Shark Club 3 Quick Start Marketing Page Templates and Training, Plus AT LEAST 3 New Templates Every Month! In-depth, "watch over my shoulder" core strategy training where I break down how and when to use each type of template so that you are deploying the right temp
SociAutomate Platinum PRO (Discount) Harness The Power of Social Media Automation To Get MORE Leads, Sales and Buyers on Complete Autopilot With SociAutomate!
WP Easy Pages Agency License Rapid, responsive landing and lead page builder with templates. WP Easy Pages donand#39;t slow down no matter what theme you use.... now with proven paid traffic landing page templates
MailScriptX - Commercial Creates High Converting Emails with One Click (Commercial License)
PayMember 50 Campaigns Paymember is a membership site software like you've never seen before.  It hooks up with your Paypal account to 100% protect your content and give you massive benefits over other members sites.  Paypal integration makes this the EASIEST to use members sit
Viral Reach PRO YEARLY Viral Reach Pro is the only Professional Content SAAS app that post and work with a variety of content. Especially content that keeps people on Facebook - Videos, Images and GIFs. The Pro upgrade super-charges everything. It can Support up to 60 Campaign
Autonars Automated webinar platform
Instazon Agency ELITE 70 Licenses Become an Instazon Agency owner and you can sell Instazon accounts with Elite or Pro level access. Sell at a yearly fee or charge every month.  You make the sale yourself and get your customers to pay you direct. Create their account using our Agency admi
=
=
Recommended
Bloxy Annual Access and Updates For The Bloxy Site Builder, Plus 10 Templates
SuperStores Commercial Get this Breakthrough Software that Creates Self-Updating Ecom Stores with Inbuilt Product and Traffic Engine In Just 90 Seconds...
(Monthly) Converzly We know that EVERY BUSINESS needs a website… so yes this is a page builder, but it’s far superior than any other out there..  What if you could fill out a form or a questionnaire about you,, your business, your customers and the type of result you wanted.
StockKosh Reseller 500 Licenses 3 Pay 500 StockKosh Reseller Accounts. Resell them and earn as much money as you want.
Viking PLR Reduced Single Back Access 2017 Viking PLR is an awesome collection of internet marketing related PLR packages each including a free report, an ebook, and a video course.  These packages come with full private label rights and can be rebranded if you so choose. :)
Viral Marketing 2.0 Success Kit PLR Get this Up-to-date "Viral Marketing 2.0 Success Kit" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
Sellin Messenger OTO1: FunnelMessenger Agency FunnelMessenger:  World’s 1st and Only software which converts your WEBSITE visitors into Facebook Messenger subscribers
ClipsReel - Multi ClipsReel is a modern, A.I. based automatic storyboarding and video creation web based software. Using ClipsReel you can turn any article, blogpost or webpage into a stunning video.
Done-for-You Gold Mines Monthly Accelerate Directly to the Money with 1239 Done For You Gold Mines
LeadPrimo Reseller World’s ONLY All-In-One Email Marketing Platform That Creates Beautiful Lead Pages and Send UNLIMITED Emails Directly into Inbox to Get You More Clicks and Open Rates Without Paying Any Monthly Fees FOREVER.
Stupidly Simple Webinars STOP paying for expensive webinar solutions.   With Stupidly Simple Webinars YOU can finally run FREE webinars within Facebook.   Create Profit-Pulling Webinars utilising the POWER of Facebook LIVE, free software and Facebook's own built in tools.  Step-b
TrendyCom Multi Trendycom is a unique platform that locates MILLIONS of winning ecom products  ready to be exploited for HUGE paydays!
CTA Wiz New Software Turns Visitors Into Customers By ‘Ethically Stealing’ Their Attention With This Profitable Plugin...
IPP - 50 PLR Package Special OTO Instant Product Publisher - 50 PLR Package Special - Grab 50 Super High Quality Ready Made Products
Tappit Template Club Commercial Get this Breakthrough Automated Software Builds Self-Generating and Buyer-Driven Funnels Using AI Analysed Links and Generates Leads and Profits On The Way Without Lifting A Finger
Affiliate Hero Front End Lite 1. Find hot product based on keywords 2. Posts using hashtags with most traffic 3. Auto-sends your referral link to those who post their email on your IG post.
EZ Spokesperson Creator - Jump Start JUMP-START' your own video business right now with this 100% ready-to-go VIDEO AGENCY WEBSITE PLUS Matt's Advanced Training "How To Sell Videos To Businesses"
Six Figures A Year In Info Publishing FREE BOOK  (plus $6.95 SandH ). How To Start Your Own $100k-A-Year Online Business Publishing Simple Information Products.
=
My Unfair Advantage - Special Blow Out $297. Omar and Melinda Martin's highly regarded flagship product has everything a marketer needs under one roof. This membership site includes LIVE weekly coaching webinars and hundreds of archived episodes. Includes access to core products for free!
SpyCom - SyVID OneTime SyVID Agency lets you share and syndicate your videos to multiple video and social sharing sites. This is agency version with pro features.
List Profit Generator - Multi List Profit Generator is a powerful Pay Per Lead marketing script which allows anyone to run their own PPL / CPA program.
Leads Profiter Reseller Leads Profiter Is The First Ever Software On Jvzoo for Quickly Building A List and Raking Profit Online On Complete AutoPilot Without Investing In Any Other Tool
Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box Upsell Get this Up-to-date "Instagram Marketing 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
ChatterBot -  Unlimited License Kick your marketing into overdrive by leveraging the new way to generate leads, sales, and engage with your customers!
Interactr Local Entrepreneurs Club Local Interactr Entrepreneurs Club instantly releases 2 additional Interactr Local Video Funnels and you will receive 2 brand new exclusive interactr local video funnels each month.
Vidify Pro - Lifetime DS1 Vidify is a SAAS platform to create and share amazing viral marketing videos.
Email Jeet 2 PRO Email Jeet PRO is an autoresponder and mail sequencing software, that lets you send mails to your customers automatically when you sign up for a list. With this you can send complete mail sequences to your customers that means 1st mail on day one, 2nd on
AffiliFunnels PLATINUM PRO (Discount) Worlds #1 "Done-For-You" Digital Product and Sales Funnel Creator.  Cloud Based App Creates High Converting Squeeze Pages, Digital Products and Sales Funnels In Under 60 Seconds! LOWEST One-Time Launch Special Price Today ONLY!
LetMailbox OTO2 Lite LetMailbox - Your All-In-One TOOLBOX for RAPID Returns on ANY EMAIL Broadcasts!!
Sellin Messenger Webinar Special 1 1st Ever Facebook Messenger Sales Automation Software! Let Messenger Chat - Engage, Sell Products to Your Website and Facebook Visitors and Handle  Support On Autopilot Even While You Sleep Sell Products or Services in 1 Click with Upsells via Fb messenger an
Internet Millionaires Magazine [ Annual PLR] Now, You Too Can Create An Online Magazine and Start Publishing TODAY Without Doing Any Of The Hard Work Or Investing A Fortune, Energy And Stress! Get  Access today to a Full Color 76+ PLR Magazine that you can Brand and sell as your Own every month
ClickKosh - Most Comprehensive Interactive Image Suite Create upto 9 different types of Interactive Hotspots on top of your Images in a snap for More Sales and Leads.
Nicheology Upgrade - G-Hacks PLR - 50 Google Tutorial Videos Grab PLR to my latest high end PLR package complete with 50 tutorials!
Speedleads Browser Extension (1 Brand) Lead generation. Reimagined.  This revolutionary browser extension adds a branded Call-to-Action to every link you share. In seconds. Right from your browser.
Lead2List Elite Monthly Leads2list captures leads from Facebook as per the niche you have set in. These leads are sought in a perfectly legit manner and rest assured the process is 100% GDPR complaint.  Once the leads have been harvested Leads2list then feeds them straight into
WP Link Shield DIAMOND WP Link Shield - The only cloaker to protect you from commission losses
SociBot LICENSE 'LITE' SociBot is an all in one Facebook traffic and commission getting software that will help you to grow your business on autopilot, even whilst your asleep!
BribeShare 2.0  Commercial Run Unlimited Campaigns and Get All the Major Social Buttons To Make the Most Out of BribeShare
Video Overload Special Automate and Supercharge Your Video Overplay Videos!  Automatically Turning Video Viewer Into Unstoppable Traffic, Leads, and Sales To ANY Offer You Choose...Turning Even The Most Suckiest, Unpopular Video Online Into A Cash Generating, List Building, Profi
LetSpinio Elite - Chris Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
Repwarn Business Account Repwarn Keyword monitoring will scour the internet and social media - alreting you to any incidence of your keywords being triggered
Hydravid Video Marketing Software CLOUD EDITION Hydravid Video Marketing Software. 'Multi-Headed' Video domination. One Click - for MASSIVE Video coverage
Instant eCom Funnels PRO Done For You eCom Product Funnels In Less Than 60 Seconds! Perfect for dropshippers who want to avoid expensive Shopify fees!
IM Funnels - IM Brand OTO Six done for you sales funnels includes,  funnel templates (Optimizepress and HTML), free offer gifts, email swipes, social media posts and lots more...
Correctsender - Autoresponder Extra (yearly) Correctsender is popular  Email marketing automation platform. It helps small and medium sized businesses to undertake their marketing activities,  engage their customers,  grow and build their brand. It works as any Autoresponder and it is fully complian
Commission Cartel How to absolutely, positively, make $500 in the next 30 days...
ATL - GOLD Upgrade - PRO DS The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
Linkedtify Commercial License Purchase The Best LinkedIn Software and Training and get rewarded with consistent leads. Proof Inside!
SilentSiphon - LeadsFlow Pro - Elite Edition The most powerful lead management and integration platform for Wordpress that allows you to track, integrate and manage all your leads from any system.
Coaching 26 week Coaching pack
Video Wave Commercial License Create, sell videos to your clients, and charge them whatever you want. Plus get 20 unique license keys.
