Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
In 2005, Charles pleaded guilty to illegal campaign contributions and tax evasion in a deal brokered by then-US Attorney Chris Christie.
Jared, married for nine years to Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka, has served as the president’s adviser since his inauguration.
Ward, whose boyfriend Richard Cohen is a wealthy real-estate tycoon, was able to hire a team of investigative reporters from Newsweek after the magazine was raided by the Manhattan DA’s office last year and several staffers were fired and others quit or were let go.
A source close to Ward said the reporters didn’t ghostwrite the book, but worked as fact checkers.
“Vicky did all the interviews — 220 in all,” said the source. “But she wanted top talent to double-check the facts. The turnover at Newsweek was beneficial.”
The Kushner camp — presented months ago with a list of questions from Ward — claims her facts are fabrications.
“Every point that Ms. Ward mentioned in what she calls her ‘fact-checking’ stage is entirely false,” Peter Mirijanian, spokesman for Jared’s lawyer Abbe Lowell, told me. “It seems she has written a book of fiction rather than any serious attempt to get the facts. Correcting everything wrong would take too long and be pointless.”
The publisher touted the presidential power couple known as Javanka, saying: “They are entitled inheritors of the worst kind; their combination of ignorance, arrogance and an insatiable lust for power has caused havoc all over the world, and may threaten the democracy of the United States.”
But one Trump supporter pointed out that Ward might have a grudge because the then-“Celebrity Apprentice” star attacked her as a “third rate writer” when her last book, “The Liar’s Ball,” about the GM Building, which Trump once owned, came out.
Trump called the 2014 book “very boring” and said, “She did a lousy job.”
Ward replied, “I don’t know how serious a literary critic Donald is.”
Harsher insults are on the horizon.
Share this:
Share Selection
Now On
Sightings
69,822
56,460
34,080
Post Digital Network
© 2019 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | Terms of Use | Privacy | Your Ad Choices | Sitemap
News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
click to copy
