We hear many stories from the border, some of which come from our president and others from various media outlets, but one American woman, named Gretchen Gordon, has first hand knowledge of what is taking place at the border, both in Tijuana, Mexico and San Diego, California.
Episode 3 of the new KrassenCast podcast , which is now available on  iTunes , Patreon , Soundcloud , Youtube and other podcast services, focused on Trump’s push to build a wall along the southern border.  During the episode, Gordon spoke of her knowledge of the situation that is taking place at immigrant detention centers along the border.
Gretchen Gordon is a registered nurse in San Diego who makes frequent trips across the border to Tijuana in order to volunteer at shelters for women and children seeking asylum in the United States.  She also spends time at shelters and immigration detention centers in San Diego.
Gordon told KrassenCast that she has heard and/or witnessed a couple of horrific stories of women and children who are in detention centers in San Diego, and who have been treated inhumanely.
“A woman was not allowed to nurse her child,” Gordon told KrassenCast.  “She was told that she could only nurse her baby in private, and they are in a large cage with many other people, so she had to hide while nursing her child.”
Laws in California allow for mothers to breastfeed their children in public places, yet mothers being kept in these detention centers within the state apparently are not being given these same rights.
According to Gordon, other mothers within these San Diego based centers are facing the reality of their own bodies shutting down their production of breastmilk due to stress and dehydration, yet agents at these centers are doing little to help them feed their children.
“Another woman stopped producing breastmilk because probably stress and dehydration,” Gordon explained. “She had a 10-month old son and he doesn’t have teeth yet, and the only thing she was given to feed him was a burrito. So she had to chew up the burrito herself and then put it into his mouth.”
Gordon did report both of these occurrences  to the ACLU.  We reached out the ACLU for comment, but have not heard back at the time of this publication.
The entire KrassenCast ‘Episode 3: Asylum Camp Nightmares That Trump Won’t Tell You’ is now available on iTunes , Patreon , Soundcloud , Youtube and other podcast services.
