February 9, 2019 J.R.
Donald Trump came away victorious, winning 30 of 50 states.
See it:
We have a great economy DESPITE the Obama Administration and all of its job killing Regulations and Roadblocks. If that thinking prevailed in the 2016 Election, the U.S. would be in a Depression right now! We were heading down, and don’t let the Democrats sound bites fool you!
We have a great economy DESPITE the Obama Administration and all of its job killing Regulations and Roadblocks. If that thinking prevailed in the 2016 Election, the U.S. would be in a Depression right now! We were heading down, and don’t let the Democrats sound bites fool you!
The Democrats in Congress yesterday were vicious and totally showed their cards for everyone to see. When the Republicans had the Majority they never acted with such hatred and scorn! The Dems are trying to win an election in 2020 that they know they cannot legitimately win!
The Democrats in Congress yesterday were vicious and totally showed their cards for everyone to see. When the Republicans had the Majority they never acted with such hatred and scorn! The Dems are trying to win an election in 2020 that they know they cannot legitimately win!
Pretty strong words from an exceptionally strong leader.
The 44th president’s border patrol chief is going against his former boss and siding with the current president on building a wall at the southern border.
When asked, Is the wall (or a barrier) the best solution?, here’s what Mark Morgan had to say during an interview with The Daily Wire :
“That’s a good question, and I think that’s another reason why decided to break my silence because the rhetoric is really getting twisted, and it really confuses and misinforms the American people.”
“The answer is, “yeah,” but there’s a comma. So yes, the wall works. It’s not needed everywhere, but it is needed in strategic locations along the southwest border. And what do we mean by the wall? The border security experts will tell you that the wall in and of itself is not the solution. The wall is a critical element as part of a multilayer strategy of infrastructure, technology, and personnel. So yes, as part of that multilayer approach, the wall absolutely works and there’s historical data that can prove that. You can go to San Diego, Nogales, El Paso, anywhere where that multilayered approach has been used, where the wall is part of that, and illegal immigration has drastically reduced by around 90%, and overall crime in those areas has drastically reduced as well. It’s not hyperbole; it’s not driven by political ideology. That’s fact, and data can show that.”
Morgan was then asked, What is the proof that a physical barrier would work?
He noted, “Go talk to the Yuma County Sheriff, and he’ll tell you that in 2005, 2006 when they started building the wall as part of that multilayer strategy, it works. He’ll say illegal immigration in that area went down 90%, overall crime in his county went down drastically. It’s just fact.”
When Carlson asked Morgan, who was dismissed by the Trump administration, whether border walls work, Morgan responded: “Yes, they absolutely work.”
WATCH:
Mark Morgan, Obama’s Border Patrol chief who was dismissed by the Trump admin, on if border walls work: "Yes, they absolutely work…that’s based on historical data and facts that can be proven"
“I cannot think of a legitimate argument why anyone would not support the wall” pic.twitter.com/ZbKB91mlSU
You Might Like
