Trump’s doctor says he is in ‘very good health’ after exam by 11 specialists
President Trump crosses the South Lawn of the White House after arriving by helicopter on Feb. 8, 2019, the day he had his annual physical. (Zach Gibson/Bloomberg News)
February 8
President Trump is “in very good health” and is expected to remain healthy for “the duration of his Presidency, and beyond,” the president’s doctor reported Friday after a physical exam that lasted nearly four hours and included 11 specialists.
The White House did not release details of the exam at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and did not say whether more details would be released.
Trump was seen by a “panel of 11 different board certified specialists,” Sean P. Conley wrote in a brief memorandum released by the White House.
The memo did not include the disciplines of any of the specialists. Typically, a physical exam includes checks of height, weight, blood pressure and other standard measures. Trump said last year that he takes a statin drug to manage his cholesterol.
Trump did not undergo any procedures requiring sedation or anesthesia, Conley reported.
Trump, 72, has visibly gained weight in recent years. He makes no secret of preferring a diet of red meat, fast food and sweets. He is not known to exercise beyond his beloved rounds of golf. He does not smoke or drink.
Trump’s former physician, Navy Rear Adm. Ronny L. Jackson, became an Internet sensation last year for his public pronouncement that Trump had “incredibly good genes.”
Jackson reported last year that Trump, who stands 6-foot-3, was slightly overweight at 239 pounds.
Jackson said then that Trump had a perfect score on a cognitive test and “might live to be 200 years old” if he had a more healthful diet.
That evaluation received lavish praise from the president, who shocked Washington a few months later by tapping the former combat surgeon to run the Department of Veterans Affairs — one of the federal government’s largest and most fraught bureaucracies.
But Jackson withdrew his name from consideration amid allegations that he had been drunk on the job, improperly prescribed medications and contributed to a toxic work environment.
Most Read Politics
