›‹
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
By Lauren Gibbons | Posted April 29, 2018 at 07:15 AM
Trump criticized the United States' past relationships with foreign nations, characterizing past presidents and policy leaders as too willing to bend to foreign interests. 
"The EU, they formed to take advantage of the United States and I don't blame them. I don't blame President Xi (Jinping, of China), I don't blame Prime Minister (Shinzo) Abe of Japan. I don't blame the heads of these countries for taking advantage of us. I blame past presidents and past leaders." 
At another point in the speech, Trump said recent talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and leaders in North and South Korea have been favorable. 
'The Soo Locks have gone to hell, and we're going to get them fixed up'
'The Soo Locks have gone to hell, and we're going to get them fixed up'
Trump made several nods to Michigan during his 80-minute speech, voicing support for funding upgrades to the Soo Locks in the Upper Peninsula and reiterating his commitment to manufacturing workers in the state. 
"The Soo Locks have gone to hell, and we're going to get them fixed up," he said.
"We're gonna start that as soon as I get back. The Army Corps of Engineers, we're gonna be calling them...can I call them Sunday? It hasn't been fixed in 50 years. After spending all that money in the Middle East, we can't fix a lock."
'A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for open borders and crime'
'A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for open borders and crime'
Trump had harsh words for several Democratic politicians, calling out Michigan Sen. Debbie Stabenow, Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer and Montana Sen. Jon Tester, who recently raised concerns about Ronny Jackson's nomination for secretary of veterans affairs before Jackson withdrew himself from consideration. 
"If the Democrats get in, they're going to take the tax cuts away and they're going to raise your taxes to a higher level than you ever thought possible," he said.
Of Stabenow, he alleged she is "one of the leaders for weak borders."
"A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for open borders and crime, it's very simple. It's also a vote for much higher taxes. It's also a vote to be careful of your Second Amendment."
'Our laws are so corrupt and stupid'
'Our laws are so corrupt and stupid'
Of the country's existing immigration laws, Trump said they are "the stupidest on earth."
He criticized policies that allow people who are residing in the country illegally to leave while their cases are being processed after they've already crossed the border. 
"Our laws are so corrupt and so stupid," he said. 
'I'd much rather be in Washington, Michigan than Washington, D.C.'
'I'd much rather be in Washington, Michigan than Washington, D.C.'
Trump got an invite to the White House Correspondents Association's annual dinner in Washington, D.C., but he made clear during a campaign rally in Michigan that the invite wasn't wanted.
Trump said he'd rather be with his supporters in a state that helped deliver him the presidency than with members of the press and Washington elite. 
"I love Michigan, I love this state and I love the people of this state," he said to a supportive crowd packed into an indoor sports facility Saturday. "I'd much rather be in Washington, Michigan than Washington, D.C."
About Us
© 2019  Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the              prior written permission of Advance Local.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
