Resources for Creative Civil Disobedient U
.
Get New Posts Instantly by Confidential Email: No Junk. We won't even see UR email (kept secret)
Gaslight Attacks
Click Image: Is he a narcissist or psychopath? Dark Disorder
Click Image: Same disorder of personality and brain: others do not matter and deserve theft and harm
Friday, February 1, 2019
As court gag order looms, Trump adviser Roger Stone on media blitz
Reuters: Politics
As court gag order looms, Trump adviser Roger Stone on media blitz
Fri, 01 Feb 2019 08:44:59 -0500
President Donald Trump's longtime adviser Roger Stone made multiple media appearances in Washington on Thursday, talking freely with reporters before he was set to appear in court on Friday and likely face a gag order from a judge.
Posted by
Reuters: Environment      New dam disaster puts Vale CEO, deals and dividends under scrutiny  When Fabio Schvartsman took the reins of Va...
Reuters: Business News      Renault's Senard to meet Nissan CEO Saikawa in Japan this week: Nissan  Tue, 12 Feb 2019 01:02:01 -0500  ...
.
Trump's Greatest Mentor: Judge Roy Cohn
Why is Trump a Russian Oligarch?
What is Psychopathy
Loss of Compassion
Psychopaths, Pirates, Vampires, and more:
Run, flee, tell others!
300 topics on this listed below in the Cloud Archive:
Welcome: Our Guest Readers Nears A Million. Thank YOU.
Follow Us Here For Current National News, Cycles of Abusers, and Mythology News
Google+ the current article you're reading
Thanks. Scooter X
760 pages. Click image for catalog
Book: You are the Creative Trickster, you Stand and Speak
Stopping Dark Psychopathic Politicians Worldwide
Types of Psychopathic Politicians and their Minion Followers
.
Top Posts Last 30 days
"Dark Disorder". What is Dark Disorder?? What are the Goals of the Psychopath?     Below is a summary from the books by Dr. Bunch...
Reuters: Business News      Walt Disney to invest 2 billion euros in Disneyland Paris  PARIS (Reuters) - The Walt Disney Company  on Tues...
Reuters: Business News      American Airlines, Qantas re-seek U.S. nod for joint venture  SYDNEY (Reuters) - American Airlines Group Inc ...
Psychopath Narcissist Abuse. Book & Kindle
a true danger to you. Find why
You too can make salt:  Creative Civil Disobedience
3,000 Pinterest Affirmations: Click Gandhi Image
Global Warming producing killer carbonic acid oceans
Hope is Universal and a Human Drive
Is that One Person You? See Creative Civil Disobedience in Catalog above. You can.
Most Read Posts 2017
"Then I Tweeted Mika's face was  bloody gory, and it might go well  with Toast Points and Creme Cheese." new Trump Traum...
Below: 2 Trump Nanny Cam Feeds
Cam A & B: Oval Office 24/7
Trump Mall Wall Beautification Project
with Ivanka Walmartian Thongs and Pottery Barn
15,000 Mile Border Mall Wall
Russian Military and other Outlet Stores
Border Wall Family Fun!
.
Search Our Topics in Cloud Archive Below or Type Here
Google Language Translate This Site
Ebook and Booklet at Amazon.com
Trump Trauma PTSD Print Book Also
Amazon.com Kindle/Book
Counter the "psychopath's brilliance" 2.99 Ebooklet, free Reader, 5.99 Book
Click this Image:
New Book 19.95 / Kindle 9.95 @ Amazon.com
Contact with Your News Ideas or For Lecture Information
Name
Email *
Message *
Trump Industries Cancer Block
Liars always lie. The dark triad of psychopaths, narcissists, machiavellians
full book version and Amazon Kindle
Spiders and Human Takers: Book of Their Abuse Cycles
find out about dangerous bullies and mythomanics
Phoenix Rising You
Stopping world psychopaths
and other movie and mythology references in Archive Cloud Below
What is the metaphor of the snake?
see 2 Topic Archive Clouds below
The Truth of Evil Characters is tough to accept
Often hard to believe
What Russians? What Putin?
Believe what you see the first time
Why is there Danger?
Selling your Internet Info
Trump Tower Old Faithful next??
Subscribe RSS
1000+ Articles Archive
Did you Win the Trump Border Wall Contest?  Click Youtube Video on here:
Greed
Conning, Deceit, Lies
make a psychopath
3 lists and forms....totally free, click image
How the Brain Causes Prejudice from the Psychopath's Propaganda
click image for videos, PBS
Don't be addicted to focus on the Psychopath, but daily do Creative Civil Disobedience
and practice, "I have my own life". Click Image for more
Can narcissists and psychopaths change?
see Trump Cycles of Abuse
You're next
Find out why because it happens regularly
Click here for Books Amazon.com (can't see catalog? turn off pop-up block temporarily)
Topic Cloud Archive Frequency. Summaries. See Catalog above for Complete Details Charles Bunch PhD
Alphabetical Topic Summaries with Expanded Tools and Info in Dr. Bunch's Books, Catalog Tab Above
See Who's workiing today. MAGA Dancing anyone?
Affirmation from Psychopathic Nation Book
see catalog above
Click here for 3,000 Affirmations
If can't see, sign for a free Pinterest account. It's great to have.
Click image for our Writing Naturally Blog
Live Feed 2:  Nanny BearCam in Oval Office, White House
"Just me bein' Presidential 24/7" "Hey where's Mary Poppins Nanny Kelly?"  The Donald
From Book 14 on Psychopathy and Narcissism
Book and Kindle November 7, 2017
Wisdom comes from a hard learnng
click on Dark Disorder above
