Donald Trump undergoes annual health check
Donald Trump’s personal physician has just handed down a glowing report on the President’s health. But one key question remains.
AP
US President Donald Trump delivers State of the Union speech1:27
US President Donald Trump delivers State of the Union speech, discussing plans to end the crisis on the southern border, a second summit with Kim Jong-un, and hopes to reduce US troop presence.
February 6th 2019
16 days ago
/display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Network News/World/
US President Donald Trump salutes as he arrives back to the White House in Washington, DC, after his annual physical.Source:AFP
Donald Trump’s physician Dr Sean Conley has announced the President is in “very good health” following his physical exam at the Walter Reed military hospital.
Dr Conley was joined by 11 other specialists who put the 72-year-old through a battery of medical tests.
Although he was given a clean bill of health, doctors advised the President to exercise more and cut his calorie intake.
“I am happy to announce the President of the United States is in very good health and I anticipate he will remain so for the duration of his presidency, and beyond,” Conley wrote afterwards.
But Dr Conley, a Naval officer, did not release any details about what the team of doctors found.
For instance there were no specifics about the President’s cholesterol levels, blood pressure or weight.
Mr Trump, who is 6’3”, last year came perilously close to being classified as obese.
Last year’s test revealed he weighed 239 pounds (108kg), with a body mass index of 29.9.
That placed him in the overweight category and on the verge of obesity, officially defined as a BMI of 30 or more.
Mr Trump’s love of fast food has been well documented over the years.
He has posted several pictures of himself chowing down on McDonald’s and KFC, as well as this infamous tweet on Cinco de Mayo in 2016.
Happy #CincoDeMayo ! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics! https://t.co/ufoTeQd8yA pic.twitter.com/k01Mc6CuDI
Last month, he invited the college football champion Clemson Tigers to the White House during the partial government shutdown.
With the White House kitchen too understaffed to cater a meal, Mr Trump stepped in: He ordered burgers, french fries and pizza.
US President Donald Trump speaking alongside fast food he purchased for a ceremony honouring the 2018 College Football Playoff National Champion Clemson Tigers in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington. Picture: TwitterSource:Twitter
Dr Conley did say Mr Trump did not undergo any procedures requiring sedation or anaesthesia.
He said reports and recommendations stemming from the exam were still being finalised.
It’s unclear how much more detail will be released in the coming days.
US President Donald Trump salutes as he arrives back to the White House in Washington, DC after his annual physical. Picture: AFPSource:AFP
His doctor then said the president was in “excellent health” but would do well to drop 10 to 15 pounds and shift to a low-fat, low-carb diet and take up a more defined exercise routine.
One of the big questions was how well Mr Trump heeded that advice.
Mr Trump doesn’t drink alcohol or smoke, but he’s not a big fan of the gym either.
His primary form of exercise is golf.
And he says he gets plenty of walking in around the White House complex.
WH Physician: Trump “in very good health... will remain so for the duration of his Presidency, and beyond.” pic.twitter.com/iudGrh8LdF
Modern-day presidents have undergone regular exams to catch any potential problems but also to assure the public that they are fit for office, something Mr Trump’s doctor last year took to an extraordinary level.
After Mr Trump’s first exam as president, Dr. Ronny Jackson, a Navy rear admiral, declared the President to be in “excellent health.”
He also said of Mr Trump: “He has incredibly good genes, and it’s just the way God made him.”
Dr Jackson was widely ridiculed for saying Mr Trump could have lived to “200 years old if he ate fewer hamburgers”.
Dr Conley replaced Dr Jackson after Mr Trump nominated the latter to lead the Veterans Affairs Department.
The nomination ran into trouble early as politicians questioned his qualifications to run the government’s second-largest department.
President Donald Trump talks as his son Eric Trump waits as they play golf at Trump Turnberry Luxury Collection Resort during the President's first official visit to the United Kingdom last year. Picture: GettySource:Getty Images
Also, current and former colleagues accused Jackson of professional misconduct, including loosely dispensing medications and on-the-job drunkenness.
Jackson denied the allegations but eventually withdrew his nomination.
Trump recently promoted Jackson to be an assistant to the president and chief medical adviser. He will advise the president on topics including veterans’ issues, the opioid crisis and health issues at the US-Mexico border.
Jackson, who is still under investigation, will also travel and work closely with White House staff.
Last year, doctors checked the president’s eyes; ears, nose and throat; heart; lungs; gastrointestinal tract; skin; and teeth.
Neurological, cognitive and stress tests were also performed. Trump’s hearing was not tested; Jackson said he ran out of time.
The exam stretched past four hours.
trending in finance
Add your comment to this story
To join the conversation, please Log in . Don't have an account? Sign up
Join the conversation, you are commenting as Logout
News Pty Limited Copyright © 2019. All times AEDT (GMT +11).
