Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
U.S. attorney for New Mexico, President Trump appointee, visits the border
The U.S. attorney for the New Mexico district became the latest high-level government official who have visited the state’s border with Mexico.
Post to Facebook
U.S. attorney for New Mexico, President Trump appointee, visits the border The U.S. attorney for the New Mexico district became the latest high-level government official who have visited the state’s border with Mexico. Check out this story on lcsun-news.com: https://www.lcsun-news.com/story/news/2019/02/09/new-mexico-attorney-us-mexico-border-president-trump-wall/2814344002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
U.S. attorney for New Mexico, President Trump appointee, visits the border
Blake Gumprecht, Las Cruces Sun-News Published 2:44 p.m. MT Feb. 9, 2019
John Anderson, U.S. attorney for the New Mexico district, second from right, speaks with Border Patrol agents at the Antelope Wells port of entry on Thursday, Feb. 7.
 (Photo11: U.S. attorney's office, District of New Mexico)
ANTELOPE WELLS - The U.S. attorney for the New Mexico district became the latest in an intermittent parade of high-level government officials to visit the state’s border with Mexico in recent weeks, particularly in the Bootheel region.
John Anderson, appointed U.S. attorney for New Mexico by President Donald Trump in February 2018, was given a helicopter tour by Border Patrol officials on Thursday that began in Las Cruces, followed the border west from Santa Teresa, visited the Border Patrol station in Lordsburg, and wound up at this isolated desert port of entry.
The Antelope Wells crossing has seen a surge of large migrant groups walking around the barriers at the port of entry after it closes for the day at 4 p.m., and presenting themselves to Border Patrol agents to ask for asylum.
Since Oct. 26 groups of 100 people or more, some containing more than 300 migrants, have been apprehended at Antelope Wells. The port of entry gained international attention in December after  7-year-old Guatemalan girl Jakelin Caal Maquin died shortly after entering the country there.
Anderson, who grew up in New Jersey and attended college in Maine and New York, had never visited southwestern New Mexico before Thursday. His guides were the Border Patrol’s El Paso sector chief, Aaron Hull, and deputy chief, Chris Clem. They were was accompanied by Fred Federici, first assistant U.S. attorney for New Mexico, and a flight crew of three.
There wasn’t a particular purpose for Anderson’s visit, other than that he wanted to see the border region for himself and, particularly, Border Patrol operations in southwestern New Mexico. He called Hull last week and requested the tour.
“I wanted to see what it was like and what they were doing there,” Anderson said. “I’m trying to see what they need from us, if anything, if there’s any different support they need from the Department of Justice.”
The helicopter left Las Cruces about 8:15 a.m. on Thursday and flew south to the border. It then turned west, hugged the border, flying only a few hundred feet above the border fence.
Anderson was struck by the diversity in types of border fencing he saw. As you travel west along the border in New Mexico, the fence diminishes in size and its ability to stop migrants. It starts as a tall metal fence, but that gives way further west to much smaller fences able to stop only vehicles.
In places in New Mexico’s Bootheel region, only barbed wire fence marks the border, incapable of keeping out anything but roaming cattle.
Buy Photo
Rancher Russell Johnson shows a border fence composed only of barbed wire in Luna County.
 (Photo11: Xchelzin Peña/Deming Headlight)
“I was surprised at the sharp contrast between barriers,” he said.
Anderson’s views on physical border barriers would seem to differ from those of the man who appointed him, President Trump, who has insisted on building a “big, beautiful wall,” though Anderson says their views don’t. 
Like Trump, Anderson believes that “a robust physical barrier” is “better for border security.” He believes that barriers are only one part of a range of strategies, including improved tracking technology and an increased number of Border Patrol agents.
But Anderson also said that he does not believe that tall barriers are necessary in many remote border areas. He said that so-called Normandy fences that are common on New Mexico’s border — they are composed of X-shaped supports connected by horizontal metal bars — are sufficient in remote areas.
Buy Photo
Normandy fence along New Mexico's border with Mexico, east of Columbus, in October 2018.
 (Photo11: Blake Gumprecht/Sun-News)
Normandy fences, named for the fences on the beaches of Normandy, France, during D-Day in World War II, are only intended to stop vehicles. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has fought President Trump’s efforts to build a border wall, said recently that she would support the building of Normandy fences along parts of the border where there is no fencing.
“When you get into more rural areas I don’t think there’s the same need for the same type of physical barriers that you have in a metropolitan area,” Anderson said. “Many of the areas with Normandy barriers are vast empty spaces, where Border Patrol would have time to apprehend a group that entered and a much easier time tracking them.”
When the helicopter reached the Bootheel region, it flew northwest to Lordsburg, the closest Border Patrol station to the border in that part of the state.
The group spent about 90 minutes in Lordsburg. They received a tour of the facilities and talked to Border Patrol agents about what they do. Anderson learned about the changing “dynamics” of what goes on along the border.
Agents told him that the nature of who crosses the border, how they cross, and what they carry with them is constantly changing, which poses challenges for agents.
Instead of small groups trying to cross undetected in remote areas, more migrants lately are coming as part of large groups who present themselves at ports of entry and ask for asylum. The source areas for migrants have also changed. The number of migrants from Mexico has declined, while the flow of people from Central America has increased.
CLOSE
This video shows some in a group of 247 migrants crossing from Mexico into the United States, in southwestern New Mexico, on Jan. 16, 2019. United State Border Patrol, Las Cruces Sun-News
The types of drugs smuggled has also evolved. As marijuana has become legal for medical and recreational purposes in many states, marijuana smuggling has diminished. Smugglers now are more likely to smuggle heroin, fentanyl or cocaine.
“It’s always changing,” Anderson said. “It’s a very dynamic environment that Border Patrol has to keep up with.”
The tour traveled south from Lordsburg to the Antelope Wells port of entry, passing over the town of Playas. Anderson was awed by the remoteness and emptiness of the Bootheel region, a far cry from his New Jersey boyhood home.
“There’s very little in that vast amount of space,” he said. “I came away very impressed with the Border Patrol and their intimate knowledge of the area. They know each individual well and ranch. It was eye- opening to me to see their expertise.”
Anderson spent about 75 minutes in Antelope Wells, touring the Border Patrol’s “forward operating base” there, called Camp Bounds, then eating a hamburger for lunch with agents there before returning the Las Cruces.
The Border Patrol base at Antelope Wells is not a full border patrol station. No Border Patrol agents are stationed permanently there. A small number of agents from Lordsburg staff the base on a rotating basis.
Buy Photo
The U.S. Border Patrol Bounds Forward Operating Base is seen in May 2017 in Antelope Wells, New Mexico. The operating base is adjacent to an international port of entry on the U.S.-Mexico border.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
The Antelope Wells Port of entry stands on the U.S.-Mexico border in southern New Mexico's Bootheel in May 2017.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
Located in Antelope Wells on the U.S.-Mexico border, Camp Bounds contains living quarters for U.S. Border Patrol agents. Its kitchen is seen here in May 2017. Also known as a forward operating base, Camp Bounds can house 16 agents, but the actual number living there varies based on need for agents in the Bootheel area, Border Patrol officials have said.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
Desert grasslands surround a federal property in Antelope Wells, New Mexico, that holds an international port of entry and a U.S. Border Patrol forward operating base.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
An antenna tower is seen in May 2017 in Antelope Wells, New Mexico, as part of a small compound that contains an international port of entry and a U.S. Border Patrol forward operating base known as Camp Bounds.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
A Border Patrol truck sits parked in May 2017 outside the agency's Bounds Forward Operating Base in the southern New Mexico.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Buy Photo
A shuttle bus is seen waiting in the parking lot of the Antelope Wells Port of Entry, on the U.S.-Mexico border in May 2017.
Diana Alba Soular / Sun-News
Replay
The rudimentary nature of Border Patrol facilities in Antelope Wells presents opportunities for migrants that officials say explains the recent surge in large groups entering the country there. Antelope Wells does not have personnel for processing migrants present in larger crossings with full Border Patrol stations, like El Paso or Santa Teresa.
Busier border crossings have Customs and Border Protection personnel that conduct initial screenings of migrants seeking asylum. Those officials evaluate whether migrants have a credible case for asylum. If they do not, they may be turned away at the border.
Because Antelope Wells lacks personnel to conduct such initial screenings, migrants who presents themselves at the border seeking asylum are put on buses and transported to the Border Patrol station in Lordsburg for processing. Most will remain in the country until their asylum cases are decided.
Anderson said that the Antelope Wells port of entry is ill-equipped to handle the large number of migrants who have entered the country there recently.
“That is not a facility designed to process hundreds of people at a time,” he said. “It’s a huge challenge. There are not many people there. There are not many resources. I had a vision of 200-300 people showing up at the gate. I would imagine if I was there at night and there were only three or four of us that would be a daunting process.”
Blake Gumprecht may be reached at 575-541-5453 or  bgumprecht@lcsun-news.com .
more12 stories12
Subscribe Now
