PopZette
Celebs Slam Trump’s Illegal Immigration Talk: ‘There Is No Crisis at the Border’
Rob Reiner, Rosie O'Donnell, other left-leaning stars went after the president for daring to bring up a serious issue
One of the strongest points in President Donald Trump’s Tuesday night State of the Union address from Capitol Hill was that this country needs to solve its southern border crisis .
The president pointed to crime at the border and crime committed by illegal immigrants as pressing issues that can be addressed and solved if Democrats and Republicans come together to provide a better legal channel for people to go through — and to fund a border wall between the United States and Mexico.
Advertisement
But Trump’s Hollywood critics have responded to his talk about illegal immigration and the border with a simple sentiment: “There is no crisis at the border.”
“Misery” and “Stand by Me” director Rob Reiner denied there’s a crisis at the border in a tweet following the State of the Union.
“The only reassuring thing about a pathological liar is when he says something, you know it’s not true. There is no crisis at the border,” tweeted Reiner.
Advertisement
“Say Anything” star John Cusack didn’t go so far as to say there’s no crisis at the border — instead, he said the only crisis is one the president helped to create.
“Except the one HE and [Stephen] Miller created — the separated families — no crisis but what he creates,” the actor wrote in response to Reiner’s tweet, with an apparent reference to political adviser Stephen Miller.
Except the one HE and Stephan Miller created – the separated families – no crisis but what he creates – https://t.co/ZZrf43pgFF
Cusack later tweeted that the country should be more concerned about crimes committed by white people.
Once again – criminal clown president so concerned about American carnage – why not stop the mentally ill white people with assault rifles -instead of making up crimes about immigrants ? We know why -he’s a rascist & a liar – doesn’t care about anyone but himself
Advertisement
What’s astounding about this level of fantasy-thinking is that Trump refers to specific crimes committed by illegal immigrants in his speeches, according to documentation. Others do, too.
Liberals always seem to want to argue that white people commit more crimes — or that not all illegal immigrants commit crimes.
These are irrelevant points. The president is trying to say that if we have a system in which even one person can take advantage of us and commit a crime like murder — then that happens to be a crime we can prevent by having an immigration system that is not plagued by loopholes and an unprotected border.
Advertisement
She ripped him for separating families who sneak into the country.
A president intent on unity does not create or enforce a policy that makes it impossible to reunite children with the families from whom they were reprehensibly separated at the southern border. #StateOfTheHuman #WeWontGoBack #SOTU
Advertisement
Comedian and actress Rosie O’Donnell also pushed back against Trump’s immigration talk by saying the campaign staff of the president commits more crimes than illegal immigrants.
Thanks for that input, Rosie. So glad we have you around to provide insight on important issues.
More from LifeZette
Related Stories
Latest Stories
12 mins ago
2 days ago
1 day ago
