On June 20th, 2016, 360fly, a hi-definition swivel camera put out an advertisement that was deemed “too risky” by American television providers. The ad features a Donald Trump look-alike holding a press conference outside (or inside) of America’s newly constructed wall. With jets passing over the conference spraying red, white, and blue smoke in a flagrant, patriotic display, a man flips on the 360fly from his smartphone and pans around only to notice that a hole had been dug underneath it. With stereotypes of Mexican’s popping up from out of the hole right behind the stage (one even flying over the wall using a leafblower), the Trump look-alike continues to speak about how fantastic he is and relating how big the wall is to himself and his ego. All while, what looks like Hillary and Bernie imposters’, help them out of the hole into the land of freedom.
The advertisement itself is incredibly effective. A lot of speculation about Trump and his plans for “Making America Great Again” have been thrown around since the early days of his candidacy. His videos have been risky too, a mixture of low quality and somewhat offensive messaging raises questions about the maturity of his character and his position on world views.
The issue is not the advertisement, but how the advertisement could have been more effective in terms of reach. In hindsight, the ad is doing stupendous now that the rumor of it being “banned” in the United States has made headlines, but they could have gone completely digital and achieved a similar reach. See, the rules to television don’t transition and apply to digital. After 50-years of television remaining consistent to the same structure, people aren’t as susceptible to advertisements. What would have come as shocking in the days of Draper/Sterling, have now become numb phlegmatic and ineffective.
With digital advertising, you can have a creative with more impact while simultaneously gaining the projected reach. The weights of traditional advertising become unshackled. Now, I’m not suggesting creating something completely outlandish (unless the product you’re trying to sell is equally outlandish), but creating something unbound by the traditional ways of marketing and advertising is on the horizon for today’s advertisers.
Sometimes, having a creative that is outlandish and creates headlines is key, but to have the focus on the controversy of that ad instead of what the ad is selling can be quite the downfall.
Check out the advertisement here:
+44% increase in ROI
+30% increase in Budget
"Attribution Pioneer"
"C3 Metrics is running TV ads and winning new business as a result."
15-44% ROI Improvement | 30% Bigger Budgets One Year Later
