An Open Letter to George Soros
Mr. Soros, you are advanced in years. At eighty-eight, there is only so much more that you will be able to add to the accomplishments of your remarkable lifetime of philanthropy. It is time to consider securing your greatest historical legacy; and, as much as your generosity has already achieved in the promotion of open societies in Europe and elsewhere, there remains a single task – a Herculean labor – that will crown the monument we erect in global memory of you.
Our first woman president?
Two years ago, you rightly diagnosed Donald Trump as a “would-be dictator”, “impostor and con-man”, and predicted that his presidency would inevitably end in failure. In an age of polarization, however, Trump’s poor performance in the Oval Office hardly guarantees his defeat in 2020. Your previous support of Kamala Harris is both wise and admirable; but if Harris becomes the Democratic nominee for America’s highest office, she is likely to alienate as many voters as she attracts.
You have indicated an intention not to come out in support of any Democratic contender until the nomination is finally secured. Even so, the time to begin building the infrastructure for Democratic victory is now. In the wake of his State of the Union address of this week and his inability or unwillingness to deliver the wall and other actions he promised to his movement, President Trump’s support among the most reactionary and radical elements of his base has eroded. He is in a weak position heading into 2020, but what ought to worry the president’s advisors most is not the prospect of facing an upbeat, progressive Democratic campaign, but the specter of a challenge from the right.
What specter haunts America?
Widespread disaffection with conventional GOP politics had everything to do with Donald Trump’s insurgent nomination as his party’s candidate in 2016. This dissatisfaction also swelled the ranks of the dissident movement collectively dubbed the Alt-Right. Movement figurehead Richard Spencer is openly mulling a run for the presidency in 2020. With little more than a YouTube channel and Twitter account to promote his platform, however, he poses little threat to the decrepit but still formidable machinery of the Republican Party. “Let’s see if I’m crazy enough to do this,” Spencer told his audience Tuesday night. “We might need to build up some infrastructure first […] but I am absolutely convinced that we need something that insane, as Spencer 2020.”
Womankind’s savior?
Are you crazy enough to do this, Mr. Soros? As V.I. Lenin said, “The best way to control the opposition is to lead it ourselves.” Spencer, of course, stands no chance of winning, but the point, from our perspective, is not to secure the presidency for third-positionism, but to ensure that opposition to our candidate is divided. Give Spencer an organization, a party, a war chest, and media presence. With Spencer in the race and backed by some shell corporation or shadowy PAC with labyrinthine flows of capital untraceable to you or the Open Society Foundation, the bloom will have totally fallen from the novelty of Trump. The Democratic contender – no matter whether it turns out to be Harris, Booker, Biden, Warren, Gabbard, or Schultz – would be assured of a win with Trump and Spencer vying for the support of divided middle-American voters.
 
Rainer Chlodwig von K.
Advertisements
About icareviews
Author, Protocols of the Elders of Zanuck: Psychological Warfare and Filth at the Movies
Zionist former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz is possibly running as a “socially liberal, fiscally conservative” independent. So, yes to tranny bathrooms and anti-white mass immigration policies, but no to affordable healthcare, higher wages, and Medicare-for-all (the only popular policies on the left-end of the Democratic party.)
So, if Schultz runs, it will seriously hurt the Democrats, and destroy the one faction of the Democratic party that is most sympathetic to the human rights of Palestinians, while keeping in power the first President with Israeli grandchildren and an extended family of Mossad agents.
You’re welcome.
February 11, 2019
“So, yes to tranny bathrooms and anti-white mass immigration policies, but no to affordable healthcare, higher wages, and Medicare-for-all ” Sounds like the American Dream!
“socially liberal, fiscally conservative”
Couple of years ago I read somewhere that Jews generally support the most fiscally conservative Democrat in a election.
Do you really think only Biden has a chance against Trump? From what I’m seeing the DNC definitely wants Kamala Harris to be candidate.
February 11, 2019
It would be fun either way. Biden is doddering and gaffe-prone and Harris would automatically intensify the racial divide. A Biden candidacy would have the added benefit of stirring intra-party dissent by incensing the Democrats’ ascendant POC and womynz constituencies which are expecting more representation.
@indravaruna
I want to see the Democrats having to justify Joe Biden literally molesting little girls in public. It’s like the worst of #MeToo and Pizzagate put together.
I can’t see how Kamala Harris could win a general election. Say what you will, Obama was cool. Harris is a mean old lady lecturing and nagging people.
February 12, 2019
But – but according to her she used to get high and listen to Snoop Dogg when she was in college back in the 80s, literally before anybody had heard of Snoop Doggy Dogg. That’s how hip she is.
February 13, 2019
How do you do, fellow marijuana enthusiasts? I was just listening to the latest rap record on my Apple smart phone.
February 9, 2019
Movement figurehead Richard Spencer is openly mulling a run for the presidency in 2020.
Greg Johnson was 100% correct about Spencer being a malignant narcissist. If he had run for Congress in Montana, he probably would not have won but he could have had a positive impact on the national conversation.
Instead, he … well, he did everything he did, and of course they ONLY reason he would pretend to run for President is because he knows it will get him some media coverage for a week.
What a dork.
Even a bad-faith Spencer run would be refreshing at this point.
If even half of this is true, it’s worse than anyone imagined.
I won’t find it “refreshing” at all, about as “refreshing” as Andrew Anglin running for President. Or why not Weev? There are lots of joke candidates out there. The fact the Jew media will enjoy an opportunity to whine about “scary alt right” for a week or so – how is that “refreshing?” How is that even entertaining?
Sam Hyde running for President? That would be entertaining. Sam Hyde is pretty damn funny.
It’s going to be Trump vs. Joe Biden. Biden is the only Democrat with even a slight chance of beating Trump, but I expect Trump will pull through, but you never know.
February 10, 2019
I don’t pretend to know Kessler’s motivations, but this tirade of his even lacks internal logic and mainly demonstrates his ignorance of the history of the Alt-Right. Richard Spencer was “created by The Atlantic” at the end of 2016? Everybody reading this knows how ridiculous that sounds. So Kessler’s intention with Unite the Right was to dissociate white advocacy from neo-Nazism but he invited as a speaker the guy he only knew from The Atlantic’s “Hailgate” video? That makes sense!
I don’t think anybody denies that Spencer has made some astoundingly bad decisions or that the man is a rich, arrogant prick. That’s basically his whole shtick.
MEAN GIRL NATIONALISM NOW!
Richard Spencer was mostly unknown outside of the WN ghetto until his debut by The Atlantic. The fact that Spencer and David Frum – of the Atlantic – had engaged in public spats before makes it even more idiotic that Spencer chose to invite a Jewish owned company that employed his personal enemies and gave them access to a bunch of drunk narcissist neo-Nazi cosplayers.
Comparing Kessler – a nobody and clearly a very naive Trumptard – to Spencer, and suggesting that it’s Kessler we need to worry about, is crazy. Kessler lived up to the low expectations that people had of him, Spencer had the entire “movement” behind it.
What the released texts reveal, and if Kessler is to be believed at all, is NOT that Spencer has some sort of historical appreciation for Hitler. It’s that Spencer is at the same level as Andrew Anglin. He gets drunk, holds parties with people like Heimbach and Mike Enoch (and his Jewess wife) and does “Sieg Hiels.”
No – the problem is NOT that Spencer is a “rich arrogant prick.” That’s fine. The problem is that Spencer is a cos-player. He’s just a skinny version of Heimbach, in other words. He gets emotional satisfaction out of doing “hiel hitler” salutes because it’s “edgy.”
MEAN GIRL NATIONALISM NOW!
50 MORE YEARS OF FAILURE NOW!
What’s the point? I thought the point was to secure the existence of our people and a future for White children, not to hold Nazi-themed circle-jerk masturbation parties and see who does the best Klaus Barbie impersonation.
Regular “civic nationalist” Trump-tards are 100x better than literally anyone in the “movement.” The anti-whites at the ADL and the $PLC are far, far more concerned about young White men wearing red “Make America Great Again” hats then they are a bunch of “movement activists” wearing “Nazi-style” armbands and “Roman-saluting” each other.
I thought that was obvious but one thing I’ve certainly learned in the last decade is that there are most certainly people with very different agendas at play here. Some people are concerned with the future of their White children and grandchildren, some are interested in getting their faces in the jewspapers.
The best thing that could happen is people stop pretending to be “on the same side” when they clearly are not.
Like Like
karen toffan
February 10, 2019
The genetic/societal task of this century is to eradicate our attachments to Newtonian structures and their ‘old world’ values and to familiarize and make us comfortable with digitized info worlds. All else, societal and political, is soap opera for the peons.
@karen toffan
Honestly I don’t even know what any of that means.
February 11, 2019
Sorry, every time someone says “Greg Johnson is right” I think of this:
February 9, 2019
Re: Bauhaus/TDS: I haven’t seen any purge in the wake of Fox News’ airing of that Ginsburg necrology. Shades of Yuri Andropov.
February 10, 2019
The last time I watched The Richard Spencer Show, it looked like that wisp of hair that hangs over his forehead kept trying to poke him in the eye.
February 14, 2019
I haven’t commented here for a long time, maybe to your relief, but reading this article and I think this article link  sums up a criticism I have of aryanskynet. My belief is anyone attacking the left and the Jews is NOT attacking me. No matter how grotesque I see them as not being my problem and useful in the long run.
“…‘Don’t Punch Right’ doesn’t mean you lovingly embrace beady-eyed social rejects with swastika tattoos and defend them at all costs from attack. It means you do what the Left does with their sanpaku-eyed social rejects with neckbeards and post-op vaginas: you don’t join your enemies to attack them. …”
@Sam J
“…‘Don’t Punch Right’ doesn’t mean you lovingly embrace beady-eyed social rejects with swastika tattoos and defend them at all costs from attack
Actually, that is exactly and precisely what you mean by “Don’t punch right.” Then again, I’ve never claimed to be “right wing” and neither Patrick Little nor Matthew Heimbach and the National Socialist Movement” is to the “right” of anyone. So I’ll continue to punch right, thanks anyway.
you don’t join your enemies to attack them
They *ARE* my enemies.
February 14, 2019
You could…just ignore them and spend you’re time criticizing the Jews. You spend an inordinate time punching right. Your obsessed, as I see it, with some sort of purity.
Patrick Little or Matthew Heimbach never called me a Nazi. They’re not my enemies. When asked the right should say that they don’t agree with all the crazy right says, (or better say nothing at all), but that some of what they say is true and that they’re not their enemies and leave it at that. What are they going to do call them Nazis??? They already do that. Ignore them  and just carry on.
February 14, 2019
You could…just ignore them and spend you’re time criticizing the Jews.
Matt Heimbach spent the last decade in constant contact with the Jews at the $PLC and now he works for the FBI-controlled NSM. So I AM CRITICIZING the Jews and their employees like Heimbach and Little.
You, Heimbach, and Anglin have been trying this gimmick for years – it’s not going to work. White people aren’t interested in your $PLC-written (((Hollywood Nazi))) act, Schlomo.
Like Like
Sam J.
February 14, 2019
“…You, Heimbach, and Anglin have been trying this gimmick for years…”
You also demonize me for ridiculous reasons. I’m not in any way linked to Heimbach or Anglin, It’s fucking silly. You sound like a hyped up 4chan where everyone’s a faggot if they don’t spout “your” party line.
Maybe in the past the Jews could prop up sock puppets to confuse the normies but that day is rapidly coming to a close. Their sock puppets always out themselves but in your zealotry you condemn everyone who doesn’t think like you. It’s silly.
@Sam J
Really, who do you think you’re kidding? You’ve posted nothing but proto-(((Hollywood Nazi))) bullshit under that handle on this blog and all the other blogs for years. Your gimmick is exactly the same: Don’t criticize (((Hollywood Nazis))) Jews are psychopaths, and Patrick Little has a serious political career and will unite all races against THE JEW.
I’m not “demonizing” you, I’m just pointing out you’re full of shit, trying to peddle some third-rate talking points that sell with no one outside of fringe “neo-nazi” blogs.
you condemn everyone who doesn’t think like you.
No, Sam J, I don’t “condemn everyone who doesn’t think like” me. I condemn YOU and your idiotic internet “neo-nazi” fetish culture that actually thinks Patrick Little and Matt Heimbach are “serious activists.”
Your a joke, your ideas are a joke, and you appeal to no one outside of fringe nutjobs. Hilarious you are comparing OTHER people to “4chan.”
Go away, don’t you have some Patrick Little blog to post on?
February 15, 2019
“…proto-(((Hollywood Nazi))) bullshit…”
You are an outright liar. Anyone can look at what I commented under Sam J. The large majority of it is posting about building 7 falling the same speed as a rock, (which is impossible without demo), being against mass immigration, noting that the Jews are using blackmail to control our Representatives, noting the Jews used the (probably set up) banking crisis to buy the whole entire economy with zero interest loans, noting the FED is a Jew controlled plot to suck in every last dime of capital, noting the Jews are raping kids in Hollywood (and everywhere else). Talking about the various cases of pedophiles that crop up and are covered up by the politicians, talking about the set up wars we’re fighting for the Jews. I also have commented a lot on how as a group the Jews seem to to be a evolutionary tribe of psychopaths. All of these criticisms of the Jews I have on occasion gone into detail and reinforced why I think these things are true drawing on history, psychology and factional data to prove that the Jews are nothing but pure evil. When people have attacked these ideas I have gone in to great detail to counter them and/or draw them to the side of those of us who see the Jews as a certain threat to our existence.
My only deviation for this is liking Patrick Little’s attacks on the Jews and ANYBODY else who attacks the Jews(as long as they are telling the truth I don’t care what they dress like). I believe that even if the Jews prop someone up to look like nuts that this will spur people to look further into the matter and that the attempt by the Jews will fail. In the past their control of the press might have been able to make this tactic work but the internet has changed things and it will no longer work. I believe wide spread massive attacks on the Jews will wear them down. That’s what they have done to us. You dispute that they have attacked us constantly in little ways over and over? Do you dispute that this has largely worked with the general population? Do you dispute that some of these attacks are silly and ridiculous just like some of the attacks that, so called Nazis do? If you can’t dispute this, and you can’t dispute these attacks by the Jews on Whites, then how the fuck are you able to say that equivalent attacks on the Jews can’t serve the same purpose for us? You can’t. What Patrick Little says is true. Even if he doesn’t meet whatever mind warped “standards” you have cooked up in your obsessed festering brain , everything he says is true and if we have 500 Patrick Little’s running for office it might wake someone up to the perpetuity and vileness that is the Jew.
As far as me being a “…proto-(((Hollywood Nazi)))…”
you’re a huge massive propagandist lying son of bitch and you owe me an apology. If anyone acts like a Jew it’s you with your constant attacks on anyone who doesn’t cleave to some imaginary “purity” line you have drawn in your warped head.
You’re either a nut case or a troll for the Jews. You’re the living embodiment of some rightest who can’t live with anyone, work with anyone or deal with anyone unless they worship your “purity” symbols you have swilling around in your head.
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Information
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this:
