Physician: President Trump in 'Very Good Health' Following Annual Exam
Physician: President Trump in 'Very Good Health' Following Annual Exam
Physician: President Trump in 'Very Good Health' Following Annual Exam
Donald Trump gestures after disembarking Marine One walking on the South Lawn towards the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, D.C., on March 5, 2017.
Erik S. Lesser—AP
On Friday night, President Trump’s physician said the President is in “very good health” and is expected to remain so.
The details of Trump’s health were announced after the President’s annual exam in a memo written by Dr. Sean Conley. Dr. Conley is a Navy officer and current director of the White House medical unit. He also serves as the President’s personal physician.
“I am happy to announce the President of the United States is in very good health and I anticipate he will remain so for the duration of his presidency, and beyond,” Dr. Conley said in the memo.
On Friday, the President spent four hours being examined by more than 11 board-certified specialists at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Dr. Conley’s memo states.
The Brief Newsletter
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. View Sample
Last year, the physical was led by Trump’s previous personal physician Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson , who was forced to withdraw from consideration to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs in April 2018 after allegations of professional misconduct.
During a press conference , Jackson said last year that the President, who at 72 is the oldest elected president, weighed 239 pounds and could stand to lose “10 to 15 pounds.” Jackson also said Trump has “incredibly good genes.”
Write to Gina Martinez at gina.martinez@time.com .
SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT
You May Like
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more
Subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price.
Sign Up for Our Newsletters
Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more
©
TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. | EU Data Subject Requests
