Challenging media bias since 1986
Gregory Shupak
 
The Washington Post‘s Gary Abernathy ( 6/25/18 ) claims “Trump Country…is more tolerant than the left”—ignoring the massive spike in hate crimes that followed Trump’s election.
The Washington Post ran three articles between Sunday, June 24, and Monday, June 25, calling for “civility” and criticizing those who interfered with the dining experiences of Trump administration officials. In the highest-profile case, workers at the Red Hen in Lexington, Virginia, decided not to serve White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders over the government she represents’ discrimination against transgender people, and its policy of separating children from their parents at the US/Mexico border.
Post contributor Gary Abernathy ( 6/25/18 ) portrayed those who have confronted members of the Trump administration as men-acing hordes with a “mob mentality,” who, like vigilantes, have “essentially evicted from restaurants” Sanders and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen “for the crime of Trump association, similar to a misdemeanor but quickly approaching felony status.” For Abernathy, these are the actions of tyrants that seem
designed to justify and even encourage harassment, intimidation and—then what? The rising McCarthyism of the left will soon lead to the money question: Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Trump coalition?
Post editorial writer Charles Lane ( 6/25/18 ), meanwhile, suggested that incivility is Trump’s fault, but nevertheless characterized the people challenging his officials as irrational gangs, describing those who use this tactic against the administration as using “unconventional weapons—ostracism, heckling, mobbing”—in an article titled, “Think Before You Mob.”
Lane went on to claim:
When civility prevails among the politically active, it spills over into calm and normality for everyone else; where you shop, or dine, or go to the movies doesn’t have to be a political statement. Commercial establishments are, in that sense, safe spaces.
It’s unlikely, however, that “civility…among the politically active” will bring “calm and normality” to thousands of caged children who have fled the devastation of their home countries, of which the United States was a prime agent —children who, in the words of an ACLU report ( 5/22/18 ), have been subjected to “widespread abuse,” including sexual assault, punching, denial of medical treatment to pregnant minors, withholding of “permission to stand or move freely for days,” and threats of “solitary confinement in a small, freezing room.”
The Washington Post editorial ( 6/24/18 ) warning of “a world in which only the most zealous sign up for public service.” (Post opinion writer Molly Roberts provided a counterpoint to the paper’s civility obsession, pointing out that “dissent is under siege” in Trump’s America– 6/25/18 .)
Opposition to what’s called incivility is opposition to resisting the extreme injustices of the present moment. A Post editorial ( 6/24/18 ) highlighted this point: The editors say they are against much of the Trump government’s actions and rhetoric, but “we nonetheless would argue that Ms. Huckabee, and Ms. Nielsen and Mr. Miller, too, should be allowed to eat dinner in peace”—referring to Stephen Miller, one of the architects of the policy of ripping apart families.
The editorial worried about the work/life balance of Trump staffers: “Never-at-rest social media have blurred the line between work hours and private time. Cellphone cameras make it ever easier to intrude and broadcast.” Those who run the Trump administration, the paper suggests, deserve to be able to clock out after a hard day of sending migrant children to internment camps .
The civility fetish, to borrow a phrase from Nima Shirazi and Adam Johnson (Citations Needed, 6/13/18 ), narrows the horizons of resistance—for example, the academic Steven Salaita was fired for opposing Israel’s massive 2014 assault on Gaza with “uncivil” tweets . By suggesting that it’s going too far to mildly inconvenience people who propagate transphobia and carry out what the UN describes as an “unlawful,” “serious violation” of the rights of children, the Post is delegitimizing efforts to stop such measures.
The civility shibboleth requires a radical relativism in which virtually all political perspectives and actions are equally valid—provided they aren’t too threatening to the status quo—and it’s effectively impossible to reach a judgment about any of them. Both the editorial and Abernathy’s column serve up the same ludicrous comparison between opposing the Trump government’s transphobia and racism and supporting women’s right to choose an abortion—comparisons that wrongly imply that anti-abortion attacks are a hypothetical, as in the Post editorial:
How hard is it to imagine…people who strongly believe that abortion is murder deciding that judges or other officials who protect abortion rights should not be able to live peaceably with their families?
Of course, considerable violence has been directed at abortion providers, including bombings and assassination, sometimes with the encouragement of prominent media figures (Media Beat, 8/3/94 ; Salon, 5/31/09 ).
One cannot act against injustice without parsing justice from injustice. The civility fetish, fatuously pretending that almost every political position that doesn’t challenge entrenched power is legitimate, is demobilizing at a moment when mobilization is badly needed.
 
 
 
Extra!
FAIR is the national progressive media watchdog group, challenging corporate media bias, spin and misinformation. We work to invigorate the First Amendment by advocating for greater diversity in the press and by scrutinizing media practices that marginalize public interest, minority and dissenting viewpoints. We expose neglected news stories and defend working journalists when they are muzzled. As a progressive group, we believe that structural reform is ultimately needed to break up the dominant media conglomerates, establish independent public broadcasting and promote strong non-profit sources of information.
Contact
New York, NY 10001
Support
We rely on your support to keep running. Please consider donating.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License .
If you are human, leave this field blank.
Sign up to receive all of FAIR’s articles of media criticism and news analysis, sent directly to your email.
Or sign up to receive our Weekly Update on Friday, with links to all our latest work.
Our email list members are key participants in FAIR's Action Alerts, which call out particular instances of media inaccuracy, bias or censorship and encourage direct communication with media outlets. This activism gets results!
Email
All Posts
Weekly Alerts
