stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 7, 2019
Trump pushed these extremely dangerous lies about abortion and reproductive rights at the #SOTU . Here’s the truth.
» Subscribe to NowThis: http://go.nowth.is/News_Subscribe
One of Trump’s biggest lies of the State of the Union was on abortion.
Trump: Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments before birth.
Wrong. NY’s new reproductive health law doesn’t allow abortions moments before birth.
The law removes abortion from New York’s criminal code and guarantees a person’s right to abortion in the first 24 weeks of pregnancy. After 24 weeks, abortion is only permitted if a person’s life or health is at risk or if the fetus is not viable.
1% of all abortions occur in the third trimester almost exclusively because the pregnant person’s health or life is seriously at risk is seriously at risk or the pregnancy is no longer viable.
Trump:  And then, we had the case of the Governor of Virginia where he basically stated he would execute a baby after birth.
Legislation in Virginia’s state leg wouldn’t execute a baby after birth. Currently, a person needs three doctors to request a third trimester abortion. New legislation would reduce that number of doctors down to one and remove mandatory waiting periods and ultrasounds.
State Rep. Kathy Tran (D-VA): What I have done is try to make sure that women are able to make these decisions and access these services in a timely manner. ... I’ve heard from many women in my district and across Virginia who support my efforts to make sure politicians don’t get between a woman and her health care decisions.
Leana Wen, M.D., President of Planned Parenthood: I just came back from President Trump’s State of the Union and I am extremely angry. As a doctor, I know that what he is trying to do is to cut access to health care for women by using lies. Abortion is safe, legal medical procedure that one in four women will have in their lifetimes. It is part of the full spectrum of reproductive health care which is health care.
67% of Americans think abortion should be legal in all or most cases.
» Find us on Snapchat Discover: http://go.nowth.is/News_Snapchat
NowThis is your premier news outlet providing you with all the videos you need to stay up to date on all the latest in trending news. From entertainment to politics, to viral videos and breaking news stories, we’re delivering all you need to know straight to your social feeds. We live where you live.
Album
SCDV 794 SERIOUS POLITICS
Licensed to YouTube by
AdRev for a 3rd Party (on behalf of Sonoton Vanguard (Sonoton)); AdRev Publishing
Show more
Show less
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
