President Donald Trump (Alex Brandon/AP)
By Jason Devaney    |   Monday, 28 January 2019 04:18 PM
Close 
  
The government shutdown fiasco proved President Donald Trump is akin to a bad poker player, analyst Nate Silver argues.
Silver, the founder and editor-in-chief of FiveThirtyEight, wrote Monday  the way Trump handled the shutdown — which lasted five weeks before it ended Friday — did not work out in his favor.
"The way Trump has played his hand so far on the shutdown has a lot in common with how bad poker players tend to cost themselves money," Silver wrote.
Silver said his argument is not so much based on Trump purportedly losing the showdown over border security to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi but based more on how Trump showed his cards.
"Good players play in such a way as to avoid putting themselves to tough decisions," Silver wrote. "Bad players, conversely, tend to paint themselves into corners. They'll curse their luck when they suddenly realize that a hand they'd assumed was a winner might be no good. But more often than not, it reflects a mistake they made earlier in the hand, such as playing a weak hand that they should have folded to begin with.
"Sound familiar? It sounds a lot like Trump, who didn't have a lot of good choices on the shutdown."
Trump struck a deal with lawmakers to reopen the government for three weeks as a bipartisan group of senators and House members work on a solution to border security that would include a physical border barrier. Silver said that was Trump's best option, mostly because the shutdown was causing his poll numbers to plummet as Americans blamed him for the shutdown.
Silver said, because Trump did not have any good options in the shutdown, it proved he was like a bad poker player who had terrible cards to play.
Related Stories:
Click Here to comment on this article
Close 
Analyst Nate Silver argues the government shutdown fiasco proved President Donald Trump is akin to a bad poker player.
government shutdown, nate silver, fivethirtyeight, pollster
293
2019-18-28
Newsmax Comment Policy
Keep discussions on topic, avoid personal attacks and threats of any kind.  Links will not be permitted.
 
You May Also Like
Without accountability, there will never again be integrity and credibility within our federal criminal justice system.  . . .
Thursday, 21 Feb 2019 12:12 PM
A half-million new people settle illegally in the United States each year, marking numbers that are roughly equivalent t . . .
Peter Tork, the wise-cracking goofball character in the 1960s teen-pop sensation the Monkees, died Thursday at the age o . . .
1351
comments
considering CNN & the Special Council are one, I suppose CNN got this one...
1402
comments
Finally a president that does what he says he going to do....
1158
comments
First sentence of the Constitution requires our government to provide for...
1177
comments
Sad day when Fake American Politicians dont protect America. Get theirs...
NEWSMAX.COM
