Opinion writer
February 5
Politicians' circle-the-wagons mentality when one of their own is attacked for a misstep, unsustainable position or scandal sometimes works in the short run to keep political opponents and the media at bay. However, unless party leaders, activists and operatives make perfectly clear in public or in private when a party member cannot or should not be saved or when a position is indefensible, the entire party can become the victim of one politician’s political malpractice.
Take the shutdown. Republican Senate leaders should have been clear upfront with President Trump that they could not and would not hold out for a lengthy shutdown. They didn’t, allowing Trump to convince himself that he could wait out Democrats. The result was disastrous for him and his party.
Republicans appear disinclined to repeat their error. “Many Senate Republicans are deeply opposed to President Donald Trump declaring a national emergency to build his border wall, with enough resistance that the president might ultimately be forced to veto a measure intended to block him,” Politico reports . “Interviews with a dozen GOP senators on Monday revealed broad efforts to wave Trump off from doing an end-run around Congress, part of an effort to avoid a politically perilous floor vote that could place them at odds with the president.”
Behind closed doors, if not in public, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) should tell Trump unequivocally that McConnell will not deliver a majority to sustain an emergency declaration. (“If the House passes a formal resolution of disapproval, the Senate would be forced to take it up with a majority threshold required for passage under procedural rules. That would mean just four GOP defections along with all Democrats would be enough to rebuke the president.”) That would be an entirely reasonable political prediction, but more important, a way to prevent yet another political debacle.
Imagine the grief Republicans would have saved Trump and themselves had they told him the Senate wouldn’t confirm unqualified and/or ethically challenged nominees; wouldn’t allow the national security exception to be misused for Trump’s tariff war; and would not permit his receipt of foreign emoluments. Indulging Trump’s ignorant, sleazy and counterfactual impulses has brought Republicans nothing but political trouble (not to mention minority status in the House).
By contrast, Republicans deserve credit for taking Trump to task over his abrupt and ill-considered retreat from Syria and his support for Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. To fend off future trouble, they should go further, clarifying their aversion to any concessions (e.g. suspension of military exercises with South Korea) in the absence of any evidence that Pyongyang is interested in real denuclearization. They should make clear that they will object to raising tariffs against China to 25 percent in the event this round of trade talks doesn’t conclude on time. While they are at it, Republicans should warn Trump not to conceal special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s final Russia report or pardon any relatives and cronies caught up in the Russia investigation.
It is far better for the GOP, not to mention the country, for the party to erect guardrails for Trump than have him plunge himself, his party and the country into confrontations in which he cannot prevail. Indeed, had they done so more vigorously and more frequently, the Republican Party might not be looking at another disastrous election cycle.
Read more:
Jennifer Rubin Jennifer Rubin writes reported opinion for The Washington Post. Follow
Perspective
