In politics, opponents like to emphasize the negative and ignore the positive. Now we see Donald Trump being lambasted for his business failings. What most people that never built a business don’t realize, is that you must fail your way to the top.
Take Warren Buffet, who lost $200 billion dollars when he bought a company called Berkshire Hathaway. At the time Berkshire Hathaway was a textile Mill.
And then there is Mitt Romney, arch-nemesis of Donald Trump who saw 22% of Bain Capital’s investments go bankrupt while he was its leader. As one researcher put it: “Trump has 515 subsidiary companies that he owns. Trump has also had more successful companies than just those 515 that he has sold, but let’s just use that number anyway. So at most Trump has had around 9 failed or bankrupt businesses, that puts his success rate at 98.3%.”
The reality is that 90% of new start-ups fail. So anyone with an 11% success rate starting companies is above average. Its the perils of a global marketplace where it can take months or years to get a product into production, after the demand for it has disappeared.
Trump is successful because he sticks to his core business, which is Real Estate,
“The majority of Trump’s fortune is derived from real-estate holdings that include a partnership with Vornado Realty Trust in Manhattan’s 1290 Sixth Ave. and 555 California St. in San Francisco; resorts such as the Mar-a-Lago and Trump Doral resorts in Florida; and Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue in New York, according to the Bloomberg index. Other properties include Turnberry in Scotland and Doonbeg in Ireland, both golf courses.” ( Bloomberg )
The great thing about golf courses is that they can be easily turned into housing developments. Bloomberg estimates Trump’s wealth at 2.6 billion. Not where Berkshire Hathaway is, but hardly a failure.
In the end, business success is measured by an increase in net worth, not by failures or successes. As long as you are worth more this year than last year, you are successful.
BREAKING NEWS
