Melania Trump wins BIG "Fake News" court fight - The Horn News
February 5, 2019
by Frank Holmes, reporter
Everyone knows Donald Trump is a fighter, but the toughest scrapper in the family may just be the first lady.
She just won her third settlement from the Fake News media for printing lies about her — including claims that she was a prostitute.
The Daily Telegraph agreed to pay Melania Trump “substantial damages,” retract a false story, and apologize for a story claiming that she hired a lookalike in the White House, so she didn’t have to attend events with her husband.
“People in the U.S. suspect Melania Trump has a body double, with another woman who looks just like her, attending events with President Donald Trump,” the English website claimed.
Their falsehood was mild next to some of the mud newspapers sling at the Trumps, thinking they can’t be sued.
Another British newspaper, The Daily Mail, printed allegations that Melania only pretended to work as a model; she was actually a high priced escort in the “sex business.”
That didn’t stop the editors from printing them—or Trump haters in the U.S. from picking them up and running with them.
Webster Tarpley, a Maryland-based conspiracy theory blogger, reprinted the story along with another: that Melania Trump’s speech to the 2016 Republican National Convention went so horribly that it gave Donald Trump a nervous breakdown!
Most politicians have let the media run roughshod over them. But not the Trumps.
So, Melania hired a high-powered defamation attorney named Charles Harder — the same lawyer who won Hulk Hogan’s $140 million case that put Gawker.com out of business.
The Trumps do everything bigger — so they sued for $150 million. That’s when the dominoes started to fall.
Webster Tarpley backed down first, offering to pay a large (but undisclosed) chunk of money to the Trumps and issuing an apology.
“I posted an article on August 2, 2016, about Melania Trump that was replete with false and defamatory statements about her,” Tarpley admitted. “I had no legitimate factual basis to make these false statements and I fully retract them.”
He went on to admit that his lies, which hit during the height of an election, “were very harmful and hurtful to Mrs. Trump and her family.”
The Daily Mail didn’t get off as easy: it paid Melania $2.9 million.
Melanie lives by a simple rule: When they go low, she goes for high dollars.
Trump’s lawyer said the first lady also forced the Daily Telegraph to shell out a “substantial sum” of money to settle the lawsuit—and it had to publish one of the most abject apologies in history.
“We have been asked to make clear that the article contained a number of false statements which we accept should not have been published,” the editors wrote. “Mrs. Trump’s father was not a fearsome presence and did not control the family. … Mrs. Trump was not struggling in her modelling career before she met Mr. Trump.”
The list of corrections went on and on before the editors begged for forgiveness.  “We apologize unreservedly to The First Lady and her family,” they wrote.
Oh yeah, and they agreed to pay “substantial damages as well as her legal costs” as “a mark of our regret.”
The exact amount is not known, but it could be as high as $3 million—and there could be more cash yet to come.
“First lady Melania Trump will continue to enforce her rights against reckless writers, reporters, editors and publishers who make false statements about her,” her lawyer said.
Other politicians rolled over and took all the abuse reporters dished out, even if it was false. The Trump are fighting back and taking names—and checks for seven figures.
The first lady has said she’s not lashing out over hurt feelings: She just wants the reporters to tell the truth. (What a concept!)
“It doesn’t hurt,” Melania told Sean Hannity. “The problem is they’re writing the history and it’s not correct.”
Trump’s lawsuits against Fake News outlets should teach them to “just not tell huge f***ing lies,” wrote a blogger at the conservative RedState.com .  A politician’s public “reputation was your most precious asset.”
“I don’t think we gain anything from a system where the media is free to publish anything it wishes, even when it knows it may not be true, and there are no consequences and no recourse for the injured party.”
Putting the elite media in its place, and forcing it to pay the price for lying to their readers, is just another way the Trump family is fighting for us all.
— Frank Holmes is a reporter for  The Horn News . He is a veteran journalist and an outspoken conservative that talks about the news that was in his weekly article, “On The Holmes Front.”
2019-02-05 16:13:36
GET IN THE LOOP!
Sign up now for daily news, straight talk and alerts from The Horn.
We never share or sell your email.
