Steven Ahle
49 shares
Jemele Hill is at it again. Hill who was fired from ESPN’s top-ranked program for threatening the president and eventually fired for once again using vile language, has once again used Twitter to threaten President Trump.
During the SOTU, she suggested that AOC should lead an assassination plot and assassinate Trump right there in the House. Hill now works for The Atlantic and she did delete the tweet, but not before everyone and their brother saved a copy of it.
It will be interesting to see what the Atlantic does about it and also the Secret Service, who will be paying her a second call and they may not be as lenient this time around.
Atlantic staff writer Jemele Hill, formerly with ESPN, tweeted a call for President Trump to be assassinated at the State of the Union address before a Joint Session of Congress Tuesday night in a plot led by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). The  tweet has since been deleted , but not before it was reported by conservative-leaning media outlets like  the Resurgent ,  Breitbart ,  Free Beacon ,  Newsbusters  and  Twitchy .
Mediaite  was the lone non-conservative site to also cover Hill’s assassination plot tweet, as of publication of this article. Other news outlets have ignored this assassination call by a prominent member of the media.
Hill wrote,  “Nah, she gotta yell: GETCHO HAND OUT MY POCKET”, a direct reference to the assassination plot that killed Malcolm X in 1965 in which a man yelled that out to distract security guards who left Malcolm X when they went to investigate the yelling. The unprotected Malcolm X was then killed by three men in a hail of gunfire.
The views and opinions expressed here are solely those of the author of the article and not necessarily shared or endorsed by SteadfastAndLoyal.com
GET MORE STORIES LIKE THIS
IN YOUR INBOX!
Sign up for our daily email and get the stories everyone is talking about.
Subscribe!
The Latest
February 20, 2019
February 20, 2019
February 20, 2019
Your email
Recipient email
