Donald Trump Easter Bunny 04-02-2018
White House
By
8574
'This incredible house, or building, or whatever you want to call it because there is no name for it.'
Trump managed to trip himself up at an Easter event for the second year in a row, this time forgetting the name of the pale structure in which he resides.
On Monday morning, Trump delivered remarks from the Truman Balcony of the White House to kick off the annual Easter Egg Roll. When he wasn’t bragging to children about the size of our military, he was forgetting where he lives and works.
“I want to thank the White House Historical Association, and all the people who work so hard with Melania, with everybody, to keep this incredible house, or building, or whatever you want to call it because there is no name for it,” Trump said, seeming to forget the name he had said seconds earlier.
“And we keep it in tip-top shape, we call it sometimes tippy-top shape, and it’s a great, great place,” he added.
Trump’s performance was not unlike his performance at last year’s White House Easter egg roll, when his wife had to remind him to place his hand over his heart for the national anthem, and his White House snubbed Washington, D.C. schools by not inviting them to the event.
And if that balcony looks familiar, it’s also where Trump stood when he stared directly into the sun with his naked eyeballs prior to a total solar eclipse.
Trump’s presidency is full of reminders that he’s not the sharpest occupant of the Oval Office. His own staffers referred to him as a “fucking fool” and an “idiot” to author Michael Wolff. His recently fired national security adviser, H.R. McMaster,  similarly called him a “dope” and a “kindergartner” in private.
Then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson famously called Trump a “moron” — and refused to deny he had done so.
Trump likely just blanked momentarily. He’s certainly infamous for saying all kinds of nonsense when he’s riffing without a script in front of him. But there are tens of millions of Americans who would be happy to help him forget the White House forever.
TAGS
FOLLOW US
1,572,318Fans Like
78,901Followers Follow
RECENT POSTS
Shareblue Media is an American media company. We tell real-world stories to give voice to the heroes fighting for American values. We are a rapidly growing community — reaching millions per week across platforms — that is optimistic, honest, and unafraid.
MOST POPULAR
