2019-02-09 14:37
Related Links
WHAT'S THIS ALL ABOUT?
___
The Senate Judiciary Committee approved William Barr's nomination for attorney general along party lines Thursday. Republicans praised his credentials and Democrats questioned how transparent he'll be once Mueller's Russia investigation concludes.
The vote now heads to the full Senate, where Barr is expected to be confirmed as soon as next week.
___
SO ... DID THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN COLLUDE WITH RUSSIA?
There is no smoking gun when it comes to the question of Russia collusion. But the evidence so far shows that a broad range of Trump associates had Russia-related contacts during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition period, and several lied about the communication.
___
OTHER QUESTIONS TO CONSIDER:
—WHAT ABOUT OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE? That is another unresolved question that Mueller is pursuing. Investigators have examined key episodes such as Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey and Trump's fury over Sessions' recusal.
—WHAT DOES TRUMP HAVE TO SAY ABOUT ALL THIS? Trump has repeatedly slammed the Mueller investigation as a "witch hunt" and insisted there was "NO COLLUSION" with Russia. He also says his former lawyer Cohen lied to get a lighter sentence in New York.
—WHEN WILL IT ALL WRAP UP? It's unclear. Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker says the probe is "close to being completed," the first official sign that Mueller's investigation may be wrapping up. But he gave no specific timetable.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24 . Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
We reserve editorial discretion to decide what will be published.
Inside News24
 
Top Lifestyle
News in Cape Town
/News
 
E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want
News24 on Android Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.
 
© 2019 24.com. All rights reserved.
 
Create Profile
Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
Please provide a username for your profile page:
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.
Hello 
Edit your avatar:
* The image you selected could not be uploaded.
Tell us a bit about yourself:
 
Your Location
Hi News addict,
Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
 
