Share
Robert Kraft, Owner of the New England Patriots, praised President Donald Trump on Friday before the Superbowl.
Kraft stated that the president is “working very hard to serve the best interests of the country.”
Robert Kraft and Donald Trump have enjoyed a close friendship for years. They talk, hang out and support one another. Kraft even wrote a check for $1 million to fund the soon-to-be president’s inauguration. He’s said he considers the president “a very close friend.”
Fox host Brian Kilmeade had brought up Kraft’s relationship to President Trump on his show.  Kilmeade asked how he felt when he saw Trump’s congratulatory tweet about the Patriots’ AFC Championship win.
“We can use every fan who wants to support us from wherever they are in their standard of life,” Kraft said of the president’s tweet.
Kilmeade asked how Kraft feels about having the support of the president of the United States and if he has spoken to Trump ahead of the big game.
“He’s been very supportive,” Kraft said, adding that Trump is “working very hard to serve the best interests of the country.”
Last summer, Kraft said Trump’s policies “are going to be great for the economic side of America.”
Never bet against Bob Kraft, Bill Belichick or Tom Brady! @Patriots
Kraft has said he has known Trump for decades and that the now-president was especially kind to him when his wife died in 2011.
So is the friendship with Patriots Quarterback Tom Brady as well.
Brady, meanwhile, has been displaying his support for Trump dating back to 2015, when the billionaire was running for president. The quarterback widely considered to be the greatest-of-all-time displayed a MAGA hat in his locker. They’d apparently met through a Miss USA pageant and Brady defended him as his friend, while carefully avoiding taking any real political stand.
“He’s a good friend of mine. He’s always been so supportive of me,” Brady said on local sports radio station WEEI in 2015. “Trump’s always invited me to play golf and I’ve always enjoyed his company. I support all my friends in everything they do.”
He has since regularly said he is friends with Trump while dodging saying anything of any real substance. Both he and Kraft, however, spoke out against Trump’s many insults of players who kneeled during the national anthem in 2017—both called it divisive.
“Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said. I thought it was just divisive,” Brady said on WEEI. “Like I said, I just want to support my teammates. I am never one to say, ‘Oh, that is wrong. That is right.’ I do believe in what I believe in. I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.”
And Brady did skip a White House visit in 2017. While the quarterback said he missed the trip due to family reasons, it reportedly upset Trump. But the president is still firmly on the Patriots bandwagon.
“I’ve known [Trump] since 2002 when I judged one of his beauty pageants … so I’ve known him for a long time,” Brady added. “He always gives me a call and different types of motivational speeches at different times.”
Meanwhile, the Rams don’t have to worry about that White House visit…now do they?
Prev Post
Your email address will not be published.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Trending Articles
