Outlook Improving: 1 in 6 millennials have $100K in savings
Outlook Improving: 1 in 6 millennials have $100K in savings
Editor: Johnathan Meyers | Tactical Investor
One of the main reasons we cover such a broad range of topics is because the masses are being systematically brainwashed to see what they are being directed to see. You can only solve the problem if you understand the problem; if you do not, you will either never solve it or continue trending on the path of stupidity forever. To become a good investor, you need to see the full picture and not the snippets that the mass media conveniently and almost gleefully is willing to provide.  Mass psychology states that it is imperative to acknowledge the forest while looking at the tree. In other words, emotions drive the markets, and you need to focus on what emotions Mass Media is trying to stir up to spot the next significant trend. With that in mind, we think you might find the following article to of interest:
 
Millennials are pushing back against the stereotype that their money management skills are lacking, as 16% now have savings of $100,000 or more, double the amount of young people who had socked away that much in 2015, according to a new Bank of America survey.
Sixteen percent say they have $100,000 or more in savings, up from 8% in 2015. And nearly half (47%) have $15,000 socked away, up from 33% in 2015.
“Despite stereotypes of Millennials as being foolish with money and not long-term planners,” they are actually behaving “quite responsibly” when it comes to money, says Andrew Plepler, global head of environmental, social and governance at Bank of America, summarizing the findings of the bank’s 2018 Better Money Habits Millennial Report released Tuesday. “They deserve more credit. Millennials are actually doing better than you — and they — might think.”
 
Daniel Packer, a 29-year-old data analyst at an online advertising agency in Los Angeles, knows more responsibilities will stack up as he hits the big 3-0 this summer, so he’s been religiously stashing away money in his retirement accounts the last few years.
He’s already seeing his strategy pay off, given he has a 1-year-old daughter and raising kids is expensive (try somewhere between $284,000 and $600,000). “I’m glad I was able to take advantage of [saving] for the last nine years,” he said.
Thirtieth birthdays are an excellent time to take stock of your future funds, especially as short-term financial obligations solidify, such as continuing to pay off the last of student loans, living on your own (or maybe starting a potentially three-decade stretch of mortgage payments) and raising children.
Today’s 30 year olds (and the soon-to-be 30 year olds) are plagued with crippling student debt, which just hit a record $1.31 trillion and affects millennials more than any generation before them.
 
According to the Employee Benefits Research Institute’s 2016 Retirement Confidence Survey, 54% of workers in the U.S. have less than $25,000 in total savings and investments, outside of their home value and a rare pension plan.
With pension plans being almost extinct, saving for your own retirement is increasingly important. The government is starting to realize that if it doesn’t begin encouraging savings now, the expense of completely supporting tens of millions of retirees who have zero retirement savings will be catastrophic for the country. Now is the time for action.
 
 
2018
