(44004)
Today
Partly cloudy. High 42F. Winds W at 15 to 25 mph..
Tonight
Overcast. Low 24F. Winds NW at 5 to 10 mph.
Updated: February 21, 2019 @ 1:39 pm
By Brian Haytcher bhaytcher@starbeacon.com
Feb 7, 2019
President Donald Trump delivered his second State of the Union address on Tuesday, and many local residents were watching. In his speech, Trump cited all of the things that he had done for the country and how he had brought manufacturing jobs back to Ohio and Midwest.
That was not the most talked about part of his speech on Wednesday morning, though. “The most important thing was the wall,” Tony Fasano said. “(It was) one of the best I’ve ever seen,” Fasano said.
Several people particularly enjoyed the end of Trump’s speech where he introduced Joshua Kaufman, a holocaust survivor, and Herman Zeitchik, a D-Day veteran, and one of the soldiers who helped liberate Dachau concentration camp where Kaufman was held.
This year marks the 75th anniversary of D-Day and there were three D-Day veterans in attendance.
Debbie Coffer said she enjoyed the president talking to House Democratic women. Trump said “don’t sit down yet” to the group while talking about employment statistics for women, then announced that there were more women in the workforce than at any point in U.S. history. “I chuckled at that,” Coffer said.
Overall, early numbers from Variety, an entertainment news source, show that broadcast viewership of the 2019 State of the Union is up roughly 10 percent from last year.
According to CBS, the State of the Union audience usually skews toward the current president’s party. That was evident from several interviews around town.
“I didn’t watch it,” one Ashtabula woman said, and added “I might watch some highlights later.” “I was watching Netflix,” another replied when asked what she thought about the address.
There were several guests of Trump in the gallery last night, including Grace Eline, who Trump said, asked for donations to St. Jude children’s hospital instead of birthday gifts starting on her fourth birthday. Then, at 9, she fell ill with cancer and was treated at St. Jude herself.
In one of the largest, bipartisan applause lines of the night, Trump declared that his budget included money to cure childhood cancer by the end of the upcoming decade.
“What I saw was pretty fair,” Carl J. Feather said. “He’s got quite a job on his hands.”
2019 is also the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing and Trump invited Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin to the speech. Trump praised the innovation behind the Apollo project and the bravery of the crew.
In another huge, bi-partisan applause line, Trump said “this year, astronauts will go back to space in American rockets.”
Tags
Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles.
First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.
Contact Information
