Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
UPDATE: Trump MAGA hat stirs controversy on school playground
An Anderson mother said she became upset when a school yard aide wore the MAGA hat that made her twin 13-year-old sons uncomfortable.
Post to Facebook
UPDATE: Trump MAGA hat stirs controversy on school playground An Anderson mother said she became upset when a school yard aide wore the MAGA hat that made her twin 13-year-old sons uncomfortable. Check out this story on redding.com: https://www.redding.com/story/news/2019/02/07/trump-maga-hat-stirs-controversy-school-playground-make-america-great-anderson/2806164002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
UPDATE: Trump MAGA hat stirs controversy on school playground
Mike Chapman , Redding Record Searchlight Published 5:23 p.m. PT Feb. 7, 2019 | Updated 1:02 p.m. PT Feb. 9, 2019
CLOSE
After his recent win, Donald Trump is selling out of his famous hats. Keleigh Nealon (@keleighnealon) has the story. Buzz60
Editor's note: A change has been made to a quote in the sixth paragraph to read: "It's like a Trump rally in the comments on Facebook."
ANDERSON — A yard duty aide at an Anderson school who wore one of President Trump's Make America Great Again hats upset several parents who said their children were offended.
Jason Provence, superintendent of the Cascade Union Elementary School District, said Thursday afternoon he would contact parent Jennifer Zapien and apologize for the Tuesday incident.
Zapien went on Facebook and contacted the news media Thursday because she said officials at Anderson Middle School and the school district hadn't yet responded to a handwritten note she took to the district office. Zapien said Friday that Provence had called to apologize to her and her twin 13-year-old sons.
Zapien said her boys were upset when the yard aide wore the famous MAGA hat and then asked students what they thought about it.
"It caused quite a ruckus among the children," Zapien said. "We had quite a number of parents call the district and got no response."
The White House Gift Shop sells this red Make America Great Again baseball cap for $37.95.
 (Photo11: White House Gift Shop)
"It's like a Trump rally in the comments on Facebook," the parent said.
Another parent, Misti Hernandez, said her seventh-grade daughter said she was offended by the aide wearing the hat.
"She said, 'Mom, that hat has so many different meanings,'" Hernandez said.
"What our kids see 'are the rallies and people saying 'build that wall' with that hat," Hernandez said.
The daughter said she felt unsafe because "I'm brown."
The issue for Zapien is not simply over a MAGA hat, but more about any action a staff member might've taken that made her sons uncomfortable.
"It could've been over a pair of sneakers," she said.
"I am offended by my children being uncomfortable with what he did," she said.
Provence said the aide didn't mean to offend anybody and he won't wear the hat again.
"He's very sorry," Provence said. "He said, 'I don't wear a hat very much. No one asked me to take if off,'"
Zapien said her sons thought it was a violation of the school dress code.
Provence cited the First Amendment and said the aide had a right to wear the hat. The superintendent said the district doesn't have a policy spelling out an adult dress code.
The student dress code doesn't allow clothing that's offensive, gang-related or disrupts the learning environment, but kids can wear hats outdoors under two circumstances: for sun protection and warmth.
Nov 8, 2016; New York, NY, USA;   A Make America Great Again hat is placed on the side of the stage prior to Republican Party candidate Donald Trump speaking to supporters at New York Hilton Midtown on election night.  Mandatory Credit: Robert Deutsch-USA TODAY NETWORK ORG XMIT: USATSI-353736 ORIG FILE ID:  20161108_ajw_usa_092.jpg
 (Photo11: Robert Deutsch-USA TODAY)
Zapien thinks maybe there should be an adult dress code.
"If a student is not allowed to wear a Confederate shirt to school, (the aide) should not be allowed to wear a MAGA hat to school," she said.
Zapien said she is half-Caucasian and half-Filipino, and her husband is Hispanic.
Zapien put a poll on her Facebook page asking whether a public apology is necessary or if the issue should be ignored. As of Friday morning with 732 responses, 84 people favored an apology and 648 said to ignore the incident.
She said her intention was not to get the yard duty aide fired but to ignite a dialog.
"It was a conversation that needed to be had," she said. "I know children at that school who felt uncomfortable with the whole thing."
Zapien added she's on the receiving end of a social media backlash with a lot of negative comments.
"People are very upset that I'm making an issue about the hat," she said.
The district superintendent couldn't say whether or not any disciplinary action was taken against the playground aide, who's been with the district for more than three years, because he can't discuss those sorts of personnel issues.
Provence said the school puts the safety of students and their education as top priorities.
"We're going to do whatever it takes to make it right," Provence said. "We want to keep the peace."
more12 stories12
