Edition United States
Nancy Pelosi Gets Standing Ovation at Clive Davis’ Grammy Party (VIDEO)
Variety's Most Recent Stories
Nancy Pelosi , one of the night’s many notable guests at Clive Davis ’ pre-Grammy celebration on Saturday, got a standing ovation from Hollywood elites as she was introduced by Davis at the start of the annual gala.
“The first introduction tonight is of someone who has joined us many times before but somehow I know and all of you out there know this year is different,” Davis remarked.
“She’s front and center making history as never before,” he continued. “She’s now the highest ranking female politician ever. Ever. Ever. In the United States. Need I say more? Ladies and gentlemen, join me in giving the warmest welcome to the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi .”
Pelosi, who had just attended Trump’s State of the Union earlier in the week, did not give any remarks but stood from her seat and waved to the crowd.
Seated at Pelosi’s table were Barbra Streisand, Apple CEO Tim Cook, Calvin Klein and Justin Bieber’s manager Scooter Braun.
Davis spoke to the Variety earlier this week about Pelosi’s appearance.
“She called me to say ‘I’m coming back, this is one night of the year I would never miss.'”
Popular on Variety
Last Time I Cried at the Movies
How Alfonso Cuaron Came to the Contemporary Black-and-White Look of 'Roma'
Rebel Wilson on 'Isn't It Romantic' Controversy: 'It Was Purely to Lift My Fellow Plus-Size Women Up'
'Lorena' Director: Howard Stern Owes Lorena Bobbitt a Public Apology
Daniel Radcliffe on Answering Prayers in 'Miracle Workers'
BTS Wants to Sing With Lady Gaga
How Miley Cyrus Set Up Her Duet With Shawn Mendes
Smokey Robinson Defends J. Lo’s Motown Grammy Tribute
Brandi Carlile on LGBTQ Representation: 'It's Important to Be Out in Your Music'
Rams vs. Patriots: Who Should Win Super Bowl LIII?
Please fill out this field with valid email address.
48 mins ago
1 hour ago
2 hours ago
2 hours ago
2 hours ago
3 hours ago
17 hours ago
Sign Up
