Nicholas Newman Energy business writer, journalist, content writer & editor. Tel: 01865 762710
10th February 2019
With oil prices around the mid-50s, more than three quarters of U.S. shale E&P companies are unable to cover capital spending from operating cash flow. Because, as Rystad Energy ShaleWellCube notes, the well-head break-even prices for 2018 were on average too low for comfort at Eagle Ford $47.68; Bakken at $44.13; $42.76 in the Permian Midland and $37.94 in Permian Delaware. The decline in U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures from a near four-year high of $76.90 Oct. 3, 2018 to a one-year low of $53.76 Jan. 18 has hit the over-leveraged independents hard. In addition, the industry faces rising competition if President Trump expands drilling rights in Federal lands and offshore.
The decline of more than a third in U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures since the autumn owes much to record output from Saudi Arabia and Russia, a response to rising oil prices and encouragement from the President. On Nov. 21, President Trump publicly praised Saudi Arabia and encouraged the downward price trend, saying, “let’s go lower,” broadcaster CNBC reported. Meanwhile, thanks to gushing oil wells in the Permian shale basin, the United States became the world’s largest crude producer at 11 million barrels a day, according to the EIA.
Read more https://www.rigzone.com/news/trumps_price_policies_hurting_us_shale_activity-31-jan-2019-158049-article/
Share this:
Message
Name
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Energy business writer, journalist, content writer and editor
My name is Nicholas Newman and I am a freelance writer and editor for hire.
I am knowledgeable in the following topics (energy, engineering, technology, transport and investment).
I write for a range of leading media including AFRELEC, AFROIL, Energy Focus, Energy World, Engineering and Technology, Eniday, Exploration and Production, Marine Engineering and Offshore Technology, Petroleum Review, Power Engineering and Technology, Rail Journal, Rigzone, Telegragh etc .
I provide  content solutions including ghost writing, features,  advertorials, blogs, web content, press releases and reports for business clients .
So keep me in mind when you or your organization needs an expert and experienced  journalist and editor to provide content to meet your publishing,  marketing and public relations needs.
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,134 other subscribers.
Lunch 1 to 2
error:
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
