Please white-list or disable AboveTopSecret.com in your ad-blocking tool.
Thank you.
 
 
page: 1
Everyone get popcorn and grab beer, this is going to be unreal in the fallout. The plume is still rising and there is plenty of time yet to transpire prior to the dust settling.
Yes, he is the worlds greatest troll, his twitter account is his laser-pointer.
Dems just don't get it, they're too busy trying to catch the light to see what is happening.
The left has gone far beyond out of their minds.
They've gone plaid.
He's been tweeting some good ones today.
AOC will probably think Trump is supporting it. She may not get the sarcasm. She's not too brilliant.
The left has gone far beyond out of their minds.
They've gone plaid.
no this is not correct.
both sides of the aisle are guilty of dividing our country.
from the republican gun grab laws to the democrats drafting legislation that won't help anyone, it's a bipartisan assault on the american people.
How the heck is the President twitting at 9:21 am, on Feb 10th?
I mean, I love the tweet, but my computer says it is 7:42pm, 2/9/19
He is even better than I imagined.  LOL
originally posted by: chiefsmom
How the heck is the President twitting at 9:21 am, on Feb 10th?
I mean, I love the tweet, but my computer says it is 7:42pm, 2/9/19
He is even better than I imagined.  LOL
My time stamp is set to Australian time and so reflected in my screenshot.
Either that or he has a time machine.
I'm going with the latter.
originally posted by: chiefsmom
How the heck is the President twitting at 9:21 am, on Feb 10th?
I mean, I love the tweet, but my computer says it is 7:42pm, 2/9/19
He is even better than I imagined.  LOL
Sublimecraft is in Australia and they are around 12 hours ahead of the U.S.
But I know for sure @AOC is going to be ultra-confused.
a reply to: Sublimecraft
LOL that makes sense.
I didn't know it would take someone elses time zone into account.  I don't have a twitter account.
But I have to agree, that tweet is going to cause some people to freak the heck out.  Will be good for a show.
He's been tweeting some good ones today.
AOC will probably think Trump is supporting it. She may not get the sarcasm. She's not too brilliant.
100% she will think he supports it.
It will take a whole team of her advisors about two or three days explaining it to her before she understands how sarcasm works.
Her supporters are much dumber than she is though. Nobody can explain sarcasm to them. Anyone who thinks ‘democratic socialism’ is a good thing is already too far gone for any rescue.
The President is just pumping out the wins, 2020 is in the bag.
edit on 9 2 2019 by Breakthestreak because: (no reason given)
a reply to: chiefsmom
The tweet will appear to happen today on all US feeds. Today is tomorrow in Australia.
originally posted by: Arizonaguy
Of course the Krassensteins are right on it. Their lives revolve around the DJT Twitter feed
They are both total and utter #-wits. hands down 2 of the most easily triggered tards on the net today.
a reply to: Sublimecraft
Whatever, over 90% of Climatologists have said Global Warming, needs to be slowed immediately.  Make fun of Climate change, all you want, but it's very real.
Republicans, still look to the environment coal and oil, to supply our energy, newsflash it is not 1970 anymore.
My next door neighbor, installed Solar panels on his roof last spring.  When it was 117 degrees here, he recieved CREDIT, on his electric bill, while I paid hundreds.
Clearly Green energy works.  The problem with wind turbines, is just like any home fan, they need a screen, then birds won't be killed.
Anyway, of the Republicans aren't concerned about climate change, the Democrats will have to deal with it.
Next month, I am putting Solar panels on our house, right after we have the roof shingles all taken off, and replaced. I am looking forward to keeping my house at 75 degrees, in the summer, with zero guilt!
edit on 9-2-2019 by iplay1up2 because: Typo
a reply to: Sublimecraft
Add the Gu Dr to that and you have the best anti-Trump circle jerk ever
a reply to: iplay1up2
The actual number of climate change scientists that agree with AGW is about 1.6% of their community.
The 90% number has been debunked over and over and over and over...
But yet some people still state it like it is a fact.
Much like they state that the AGW "theory" is a fact.
/facepalm
Political Mud-Pit: 1 hours ago
top topics
New World Order: 17 hours ago, 40 flags
Political Mud-Pit: 2 hours ago, 32 flags
active topics
This content community relies on user-generated content from our member contributors. The opinions of our members are not those of site ownership who maintains strict editorial agnosticism and simply provides a collaborative venue for free expression.
 
