Luty 10, 2019
Former Obama administration health official Ronald Klain, who served as the U.S. Ebola response coordinator in 2014, blasted President Donald Trump’s second annual physical health exam via Twitter.
After Trump underwent a thorough physical examination at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center on Friday, the president’s personal physician Dr. Sean Conley declared he was in “very good health” and “will remain so for the duration of his Presidency, and beyond.”
Although, Conley, who’s also the current director of the White House medical unit, didn’t reveal any results from the four-hour examination which was led by a team of 11 specialists, he did mention that “reports and recommendations are being finalized.”
“No doctor can predict someone’s future health,” Klain tweeted in response to Conley’s statement on Saturday. “This is a disgrace to an office with a great tradition of professionalism. Just another institution turned into a joke by a President determined to make anyone willing to submit an instrument of his lies.”
No doctor can predict someone’s future health.
This is a disgrace to an office with a great tradition of professionalism. Just another institution turned into a joke by a President determined to make anyone willing to submit an instrument of his lies https://t.co/X91box4Gm6
The exam on Friday marked the second physical Trump has received since taking office in 2017. After the president’s first full examination last year, Trump’s physician at the time, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, de live red an unusually lengthy report to reporters in the White House briefing room where he boasted about his client’s good health.
“It’s called genetics,” Jackson said. “I told the president if he had eaten healthier over the last 25 years, he might live to be 200.”
While Jackson touted Trump’s good health last year, the doctor also prescribed some health goals for the president to achieve, including lowering his weight and tackling bad cholesterol. However, a White House spokesperson revealed on Friday the president hasn’t managed to fully abide by Jackson’s program.
“The president received a diet and exercise plan last year after his annual physical,” White House spokesperson Hogan Gidley said. “But the president admits he has not followed it religiously.”
In addition to his role as the U.S. Ebola response coordinator to Obama, Klain also served as Chief of Staff to former Vice Presidents Al Gore (1995-1999) and Joe Biden (2009-2011).
U.S. President Donald Trump returns to the White House after receiving his annual physical exam at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center on February 8, 2019 in Washington, DC. Getty/Olivier Douliery-Pool
Luty 21, 2019
NewSSlap is your news, entertainment, music fashion website. We provide you with the latest breaking news from the entertainment industry.
