SAUL LOEB/Getty Images
Trump said Friday night that North Korea is on track to become “a great Economic Powerhouse” some day as he unveiled details about his next summit with the dictator he once called “a bad dude.” U.S. envoys held “ a very productive meeting ” in north Korea and agreed that the next summit between Trump and Kim will take place in Hanoi on Feb. 27 and 28. “I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim & advancing the cause of peace!” Trump wrote on Twitter. Trump had already announced the dates for the second summit and said it would be in Vietnam but hadn’t disclosed the city.
My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second Summit with Kim Jong Un. It will take place in Hanoi, Vietnam, on February 27 & 28. I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim & advancing the cause of peace!
Merely making that announcement wasn’t enough for the president though as he went on to effusively praise Kim . Under the “leadership” of an authoritarian ruler that has no qualms about killing, torturing, and starving his country’s people, North Korea “will become a different kind of Rocket—an Economic one!” And although some people may be surprised, Trump will be expecting it. “I have gotten to know him & fully understand how capable he is,” Trump wrote.
North Korea, under the leadership of Kim Jong Un, will become a great Economic Powerhouse. He may surprise some but he won’t surprise me, because I have gotten to know him & fully understand how capable he is. North Korea will become a different kind of Rocket - an Economic one!
The State Department also said Friday that Stephen Biegun, the U.S. special representative for North Korea, held three days of talks in Pyongyang and will be meeting with North Korean officials again before the summit. Biegun and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Hyok Chol, “discussed advancing President Trump and Chairman Kim’s Singapore summit commitments of complete denuclearization, transforming U.S.-DPRK relations, and building a lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula,” the State Department said, using the acronym for North Korea’s official name.
Support our journalism
Help us continue covering the news and issues important to you—and                 get ad-free podcasts and bonus segments,                 members-only content, and other great benefits.
Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company.
All contents © 2019 The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.
We Need to Talk About Your Ad Blocker
Slate relies on advertising to support our journalism. If you value our work, please disable your ad blocker.
Want to Block Ads But Still Support Slate?
By joining Slate Plus you support our work and get exclusive content. And you'll never see this message again.
