In A Shockingly Racist Tweet, Trump And Trump Jr. Casually Joke About Native American Genocide
02/09/2019
In A Shockingly Racist Tweet, Trump And Trump Jr. Casually Joke About Native American Genocide
shares
President Donald Trump on Saturday ignited a firestorm of criticism for making an apparent joke about Native American genocide in a tweet taunting Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) over her Native American heritage.
Hours after Warren officially announced her presidential bid on Saturday, Trump tweeted: “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore?”
“See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!” he added, a potential reference to the Trail of Tears, the forced relocation of Native Americans from their ancestral lands in the 1800s that led to the deaths of thousands of people following the passage of the 1830 Indian Removal Act.
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
The intent of the president’s joke was seemingly confirmed a short time later by his eldest son, Donald Trump, Jr., who shared right-wing media personality Michael Savage’s response to his father’s tweet. Savage tweeted: “The Native American genocide continues with another murder by the president.”
oh my god pic.twitter.com/Rz6TqIxBgo
Just last month , Trump said the 2020 presidential hopeful should have filmed a commercial “from Bighorn or Wounded Knee” in “full Indian garb”.
Wounded Knee was one of the worst native massacres in US history. The Washington Post notes : “One hundred years after U.S. soldiers killed and maimed hundreds of Sioux men, women and children at the Wounded Knee massacre, Congress formally apologized in 1990 by expressing its “deep regret on behalf of the United States.”
Ruth Hopkins, a Dakota/Lakota Sioux writer and tribal attorney, said the president’s jibe was “cold, callous and just plain racist. +300 of my people were massacred at Wounded Knee. Most were women and children,” Hopkins added, “This isn’t funny, it’s cold, callous, and just plain racist.”
The president has repeatedly referred to Warren as “Pocahontas,” ignoring calls from politicians on both sides of the aisle, historians and Native American groups to stop using the racial slur to attack the senator’s claims of American Indian heritage.
Here’s is some of the criticisms the president’s tweet received online Saturday:
Thousands of Native Americans died on the ‘Trail of Tears’ — https://t.co/ji25xvAUzC
This is an extremely racist “joke” — the punchline is a riff on genocide — and would probably get him kicked off Twitter if he weren’t the President https://t.co/F4gt8DO8nf
I once met a high school history teacher who told me he begins every school year by telling his new students, “America is built on a graveyard” and honestly that should be the standard intro nationwide
Pro tip: You don't need all caps, let your genocide pun sell itself. https://t.co/aalAgEYs0F
Because genocide is hilarious (if you’re a bad person) https://t.co/ALvOps9Z4U
I agree genocide is the lowest for tRump thus far. I should hope so.
Applauding the genocide of indigenous people to own the libs.
where the president's son reposts a horrible joke about the genocide of native americans based of a horrible joke about native american genocide made by the President.
these were real people. families. a culture and history extinguished.
to the Trump family, it is a punchline. https://t.co/7zANratHGV
I said from day one that Trump should have been banned from twitter.
i thought i'd stopped being surprised by how gleefully cruel don jr is a while ago but jesus fucking christ
Your reaction:
RELATED ARTICLES
POPULAR THIS WEEK
Latest
Follow TheGailyGrind
SIGN UP
