Challenging media bias since 1986
Western Media Fall in Lockstep for Cheap Trump/Rubio Venezuela Aid PR Stunt
Adam Johnson
The Trump administration’s now completely overt effort to overthrow Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro had a very successful public relations effort this week, as major Western media outlets uniformly echoed its simplistic, pre-packaged claim that the Venezuelan government was heartlessly withholding foreign aid:
All of the above articles—and scores more like it —repeated the same script: Maduro was blocking aid from the US “out of refusal to relinquish power,” preferring to starve “his own people” rather than feed them. It’s a simple case of good and evil—of a tyrannical, paranoid dictator not letting in aid to feed a starving population.
Except three pieces of key context are missing. Context that, when presented to a neutral observer, would severely undermine the cartoonish narrative being advanced by US media.
Both the Red Cross and UN warned the US not to engage in this aid PR stunt.
The bridge in question is a visual metaphor contrived by the Trump administration of little practical relevance.
The person in charge of US operations in Venezuela has a history of using aid as a cover to deliver weapons to right-wing mercenaries.
(1) Not only has the international aid community not asked for the “aid,” earlier this week, both the International Red Cross and United Nations warned the US to explicitly not engage in these types of PR stunts. As Washington Post contributor Vincent Bevins pointed out , the transparent cynicism of these efforts was preemptively warned about by the groups actually charged with keeping starving people fed:
***
UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations warned on Wednesday against using aid as a pawn in Venezuela after the United States sent food and medicine to the country’s border and accused President Nicolas Maduro of blocking its delivery with trucks and shipping containers.
Indeed, as Bevins also noted , the Red Cross has long been working with local authorities inside Venezuela to deliver relief, and just last week doubled its budget to do so. We have ample evidence the Maduro government is more than willing to work with international aid when it’s offered in good faith, not when it’s a thinly veiled mechanism to spur civil war and contrive PR victories for those seeking to overthrow the government. It’s not just Maduro—as the Western media are presenting it—who opposes the US aid convoy; it’s the UN and Red Cross. Why do none of the above reports note this rather key piece of information, instead giving the reader the impression it’s only the stance of a sadistic, power-hungry madman?
(2) Despite dozens of media outlets giving the impression (and sometimes explicitly saying ) that the Venezuelan government shut down an otherwise functioning pathway into the country, the bridge in question hasn’t been open for years.
It’s true the Venezuelan government appears to have placed an oil tanker and cargo containers on the bridge to prevent incursion from the Colombian side, but the other barriers, as writer and software developer Justin Emery noted , have been in place since at least 2016. According to La Opinion ( 2/5/16 ), after its initial construction in 2015, the bridge has never been open to traffic. How can Maduro, as the BBC suggested , “reopen” a bridge that was never open?
The reality is BBC and other Western media were just going along with the narrative pushed by Sen. Marco Rubio and Trump Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, not bothering to check if their primary visual narrative was based on a bad faith, context-free PR stunt.
This point is a relatively superficial one, but in a long term PR battle to win over Western liberals for further military escalation, the superficial matters a lot. Rubio and the Trump administration cooked up a gimmicky visual metaphor, and almost every outlet uncritically passed it along, often making factually inaccurate assumptions along the way—assumptions the Trump State Department and CIA coordinating the effort knew very well they would make.
(3) The Venezuelan government has an entirely rational reason to suspect the US would use humanitarian aid as a cover to smuggle in weapons to foment armed conflict: The person running quarterback for Trump on the current Venezuela operation, Elliot Abrams , literally did just that 30 years ago.
From the first two paragraphs (emphasis added) of a 1987 AP/New York Times article on Elliott Abrams, “Abrams Denies Wrongdoing in Shipping Arms to Contras” ( 8/17/87 —h/t Kevin Gosztola ):
Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams has defended his role in authorizing the shipment of weapons on a humanitarian aid flight to Nicaraguan rebels, saying the operation was ”strictly by the book.”
Mr. Abrams spoke at a news conference Saturday in response to statements by Robert Duemling, former head of the State Department’s Nicaraguan humanitarian assistance office, who said he had twice ordered planes to shuttle weapons for the Contras on aid planes at Mr. Abrams’ direction in early 1986.
It’s literally the same person. It’s not that Maduro is vaguely paranoid the US, in general, would dust off its 1980s’ Contra-backing Cold War playbook, or some unspecified assumption about a higher-up or two at State. It’s literally the exact same person in charge of the operation who we know—with 100 percent certainty, because he admitted to it—has a history of using aid convoys as a cover to smuggle in arms to right-wing militias.
It’s all playing out right now, in real time. The same actors, the same tricks, the same patently disingenuous concern for the starving poor. And the US media is stripping it of all this essential context, presenting these radical regime-change operators as bleeding heart humanitarians.
 
Comments
Or malevolent assistance?
How many times does history have to repeat itself before a spade is indelibly stamped a spade?
Saddem Hussein
Salvador Allende
Mohammad Mosaddegh
Muhammar Qaddafi
Manuel Noriega
Fidel Castro
and on  and  on and on…..meanwhile the US was supporting fascist, evil, monsters in place of ALL of the above when said people suddenly got in the way of  Washington’s plans.  But maybe  a drone can hit your house? That would be greeeeeaat!
Donald “Fire and Fury” Trump is a monster and must be removed at all costs. I don’t want soldiers on the ground but a well targeted drone strike to take him out would save millions of lives.
A NATO Predator Drone hit would stop this American war criminal from threatening; waging economic and covert wars; or bombing more nations from the Middle East to Latin America to Eurasia to Africa!
;-)
k:
Why do you pretend to be confused by the difference between “not opened [officially] to traffic” and “unusable [for traffic]”?
Oh, wait, never mind.
Bridges don’t have to be opened officially, or even entirely complete, to carry goods across them.
Sad flail at conflation and misdirection you posted.
Because you’ve confused “not [officially] opened bridge” with “unusable bridge”.
Did you glance at the photo?
Of course not.
Thank you for a great article.
You briefly mention starving people in Venezuela.  Why haven’t we seen photos of mass starvation?  Near all the photos and videos I’ve seen (of both pro & anti-Maduro Venezuelans) is groups of people who look well-fed (to say the least) and certainly not starving.
Does solid evidence exist of mass starvation in Venezuela?  And, if so, why isn’t there photographic evidence of this?
I’d love an answer on this from someone I can trust.
Thank you,
Durning the previous administration and it’s grab for a worthless arms agreement with Iran..did I mention how it was “a much ado about nothing…deal?”
The U.S. government lost insight into not only drug trafficking and other criminal activity worldwide, but also into Hezbollah’s illicit conspiracies with top officials in the Iranian, Syrian, Venezuelan and Russian governments—all the way up to presidents Nicolas Maduro, Assad and Putin, according to former task force members and other current and former U.S. officials.”
Durning the previous administration and it’s grab for a worthless arms agreement with Iran..did I mention how it was “a much ado about nothing…deal?”
The U.S. lost insight into not only drug trafficking and other criminal activity worldwide, but also into Hezbollah’s illicit conspiracies with top officials in the Iranian, Syrian, Venezuelan and Russian governments—all the way up to presidents Nicolas Maduro, Assad and Putin, according to former task force members and other current and former U.S. officials.”
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
FIND US IN YOUR INBOX
If you are human, leave this field blank.
Sign up to receive all of FAIR’s articles of media criticism and news analysis, sent directly to your email.
Or sign up to receive our Weekly Update on Friday, with links to all our latest work.
Our email list members are key participants in FAIR's Action Alerts, which call out particular instances of media inaccuracy, bias or censorship and encourage direct communication with media outlets. This activism gets results!
Email
All Posts
Weekly Alerts
What’s FAIR
FAIR is the national progressive media watchdog group, challenging corporate media bias, spin and misinformation. We work to invigorate the First Amendment by advocating for greater diversity in the press and by scrutinizing media practices that marginalize public interest, minority and dissenting viewpoints. We expose neglected news stories and defend working journalists when they are muzzled. As a progressive group, we believe that structural reform is ultimately needed to break up the dominant media conglomerates, establish independent public broadcasting and promote strong non-profit sources of information.
Contact
New York, NY 10001
Support
We rely on your support to keep running. Please consider donating.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License .
If you are human, leave this field blank.
Sign up to receive all of FAIR’s articles of media criticism and news analysis, sent directly to your email.
Or sign up to receive our Weekly Update on Friday, with links to all our latest work.
Our email list members are key participants in FAIR's Action Alerts, which call out particular instances of media inaccuracy, bias or censorship and encourage direct communication with media outlets. This activism gets results!
Email
All Posts
Weekly Alerts
