Liberal and Conservative Politics and News in Light of r/K Selection Theory
In what looks like the genetic experiment I have only dreamed of completing one day, an Italian Carnivale featured a gigantic real-life, paper-mache God-Emperor (click for full size, and the cued YouTube is at the end):
Watch the video until you get the closeups. The eyes have a fixed, focused, warrior-like quality, and they actually swing from side to side, as the head rotates, giving a perfect illusion of the God Emperor’s careful scrutinization of his environment for potential opportunities to lay waste to enemies. It is really a mind-blowing work of artistry, and I will bet it is so realistic that leftists watching it would feel their triggering go stratospheric from the mere simulation of eye-contact on their amygdalae, if the eyes momentarily rested on them:
Also some pretty cool human-sized God Emperors walking as part of the ground entourage:
It is a masterpiece, from the twitter logos and flames on his sword, to the skulls on his back.
The level of artistry on this is a measure of the level of motivation of our kind at this moment in time. Presently the only outlet for their K was this masterpiece, so you can see how much K is flowing by how much flowed into this. But there may come a time when the influence, and constraints imposed upon the society, by the left will wane, as our outrage grows. And then that K may flow somewhere else. With the God Emperor as our leader, I think we will all be surprised how that all turns out.
We need to crowdfund this, to bring it to the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade. We could couch it as a sign of brotherhood with our Italian Artisan brothers, a kind of “hands across the sea” thing. And opposing it would be couched as an affront to our foreign brothers, who went to such lengths to honor our country by producing such a magnificent sculpture and offering it to us as an entreaty of friendship. Hopefully that would shame the left into silence. Would this fit in the streets where they do the Thanksgiving Day Parade? How much would it cost to bring it over here, and reassemble it? How many Trump supporters would travel to New York to be a part of the entourage with this magnificent work of art?
If this happens, dibs on the sword-swinging Trump costume, right here, right now. I’m just saying.
Anonymous
says:
I believe Trump has spent a lifetime, going back to his military academy days, arduously studying war as a means of mastering business. And one thing I believe he mastered was intelligence-gathering and analysis. I have zero doubt he has staff whose sole purpose is surfing all of these grassroots sites, to keep an ear to the ground, and it wouldn’t surprise me he gets a brief each morning with anything interesting that appeared on any of the sites. I put this here as much so his staff will see it and maybe pass it on, as to inform and entertain everyone else here.
Of course there is a not-insignificant possibility everything globally has been much more networked than we would think possible by the Storm-starters, and Trump knew about this before it even happened because it is part of the Plan. I am shocked by how quickly a right-wing in the US who couldn’t shoot straight and who ceded every battle before it even began has transformed into a world-wide movement that has been on a non-stop winning spree, with things that seem impossibly perfect happening every single day, and seemingly nothing that can go wrong, all over the globe.
Something very big, and very horrible was about to happen. I don’t know the fine points, but the broad strokes are obvious to me. We were close. And I am not surprised that those unique American warrior psychologies who found themselves in the right place would have stepped up and done something similarly massive to try and stop it.
I could and hope to be wrong, but things are looking pretty damned bleak. America as we knew it is dead. We’re losing freedoms left and right, and Trump wont even stick up for his supporters? All he does is whine on Twitter while the people who got him elected are deplatformed, demonetized, bankrupted, and imprisoned.
Oh and dont forget, “I want people to come into our country in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally.”
In other words, he cucked. Its easier to whine and cuck than to stop population replacement, arrest Hillary, build a big beautiful wall that Mexico would pay for, or to whack the knees of the health care and education rackets.
Will the real God Emperor please stand up?
TOP KEK
Oh shit, that made my day already and I«ve only woke up 15 minutes ago.
Viareggio is about forty miles up the coast from me and I intend to visit for one of the remaining carnival weekends. The show is always noisy but spectacular.
Ever since the European Union removed a government here some years ago, I have had a sense that what we might call a MIGA mood has been forming, recently last year’s elections proved it.
YouTube has video of previous carnivals.  Readers here may enjoy them.
At 3:11:25, I can see a hammer and sickle on the shoulder part of the armor, the part that looks like it would cover his right deltoid. Why would that be there? Would that be a symbolic display of a vanquished enemy or movement, is that an indicator that some communist group somehow supports the God Emperor (impossible, I know), or is it something else? I didn’t expect to see that there, which is why I’m asking.
Skipping around a bit, at 2:24:15 there’s also a float of that piece-of-shit, communist artist Frida Khalo standing on a platform with what looks like Trump’s image painted on it with her left foot stepping on him. At 2:25:30 you can see the Trump image more clearly.
Still elsewhere, including at the 2:01:00 mark and afterward, I saw a Trump float that made him look like a baby on its belly, swinging his stubby arms and legs with a smug, smiling face in what looks like sleepwear. There’s also a moon with a bullet in its eye. I don’t know what to make of this one.
All that said, the artistry in the giant God Emperor float and blue God Emperor costume is pretty awesome.
I’ve been following this resource for maybe a couple years now. First found my way to you via a comment on Vox Popoli that had the URL text for a post on this site. Been coming back on a daily basis ever since.
AC, please stay safe and take care of yourself.
I think that is supposed to be Putin, an ally against the globalists. I think JFK may have been on a leg, which made me think it might be a Storm-related production.
I think the floating one of Trump was supposed to be him in a space suit because of space force, but it wasn’t all that great, so I didn’t bother focusing on it.
Thanks for the well wishes. Right back at you!
Search for:
The Evolutionary Psychology Behind Politics is available at Amazon at the link below. It is also offered free in Kindle format periodically. For more on that offer, see:
What Are r And K
This site asks for your help in promoting the idea that our political ideologies evolved from r/K Selection Theory in evolutionary ecology.
In evolutionary ecology, r and K describe two fundamental psychologies seen in nature, designed to adapt an organism to either a glut or a shortage.
Rabbits are r-strategists, designed to exploit free resources, like fields of grass. The five psychological traits inherent to the r-strategy are docility/conflict-avoidance, promiscuity/non-monogamy, single-mom'ing, early sexualization of young, and no loyalty to a competitive in-group. All help this glut-exploiting psychology to out-reproduce everyone else by avoiding danger, mating widely starting young, booting offspring early to mate again, and never risking for others .
Wolves are K-strategists, designed for when resources are too limited for everyone to survive. The five traits of a K-strategist are competitiveness/ aggressiveness/protectiveness, competitive mate monopolization/ monogamy, high-investment two-parent rearing, only mating when mature, and high loyalty to one's competitive in-group. All these traits either help you win when you have to fight, or produce and protect fitter offspring, so they will win in a dangerous world that culls the weak.
Our political battle is one between a glut-exploiting r-reproductive strategy of rabbits designed to produce raw numbers and a shortage-surviving K-reproductive strategy of wolves designed to produce quality. The swings between conservatism and liberalism at the societal level are not the result of logical argument or reasoned debate. They are the result of psychological shifts produced by perceptions of K-stimuli in the environment such as conflict, danger, and shortage, or r-stimuli, such as safety, pleasure, and abundance. These perceptions trigger ancient mechanisms in the brain that adapt psychology to environment. All of politics and much of history are r vs K.
Please consider helping to spread this theory by telling others about this site. As you can see by the shocked 5 star reviews on the book's Amazon page linked above, this idea, and the science behind it, blows people away when they see it. And best of all, it will utterly demoralize and crush any leftist you describe it to, in unbelievable fashion. This idea's beneficial effects on our governance and our freedom cannot be overestimated, if it can only spread.
Blogroll
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Recent Posts
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
