SPONSORED
 
 
 
X
eBay Money Back Guarantee
so_quick_trading has no other items for sale.
Details about  Trump Victory 2016 Dollar Bill Fake Play Funny Money Novelty Note + FREE SLEEVE
Trump Victory 2016 Dollar Bill Fake Play Funny Money Novelty Note + FREE SLEEVE
Item Information
Please enter a quantity of $qty_dummy$ or less Please enter a quantity of 1 Purchases are limited to $qty_dummy$ per buyer Please enter quantity of 1 or more Please enter a lower number Choose quantity that is less than $qty_dummy1$ or equal to $qty_dummy$ You can only choose quantity that is equal to $qty_dummy$
Unit price:
 
 
Trump Victory 2016 Dollar Bill Fake Play Funny Money Novelty Note + FREE SLEEVE
Sign in to check out
Check out as guest
The item you've selected was not added to your cart.
 
Import charges:
This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. If you reside in an EU member state besides UK, import VAT on this purchase is not recoverable. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab
No additional import charges on delivery
Delivery:
Includes 4 business days handling time after receipt of cleared payment.
Payments:
Returns:
14 day returns. Buyer pays for return shipping |  See details
Frequently Bought Together
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Add to cart to save with this special offer
If you Buy It Now, you'll only be purchasing this item. If you'd like to get the additional items you've selected to qualify for this offer, close this window and add these items to your cart.
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Last updated on  Feb 20, 2019 21:28:30 PST  View all revisions
Item specifics
Seller Notes:
“BRAND NEW”
Shipping and handling
This item will ship to United States, but the seller has not specified shipping options. Contact the seller- opens in a new window or tab and request a shipping method to your location.
Shipping cost cannot be calculated. Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Free shipping on orders of 2 or more eligible items from so_quick_trading, and use the cart to make your purchase.
Item location: Oakley, California, United States
Shipping to: United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Denmark, Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Estonia, Australia, Greece, Portugal, Cyprus, Slovenia, Japan, Sweden, Indonesia, Thailand, Belgium, France, Hong Kong, Ireland, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, Bahamas, Singapore, Switzerland, Norway, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Croatia, Republic of, Malaysia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Jamaica, Vietnam, Uruguay
Excludes: APO/FPO, Tajikistan, Bangladesh, Maldives, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Bhutan, Korea, South, Kyrgyzstan, Sri Lanka, China, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, India, Nepal, Armenia, Mongolia, Azerbaijan Republic, Georgia, Afghanistan, Russian Federation, Taiwan, Brunei Darussalam, Laos, Philippines, Macau, Cambodia, Macedonia, Iceland, Andorra, Gibraltar, Montenegro, Monaco, Jersey, Vatican City State, San Marino, Serbia, Luxembourg, Belarus, Svalbard and Jan Mayen, Liechtenstein, Moldova, Albania, Guernsey, Ukraine, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Africa, Paraguay, Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), Suriname, Guyana, French Guiana, Bolivia, Argentina, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela, Greenland, Mexico, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Bermuda, Virgin Islands (U.S.), British Virgin Islands, Grenada, Puerto Rico, Dominica, Belize, Haiti, Saint Kitts-Nevis, Turks and Caicos Islands, Montserrat, Antigua and Barbuda, Cayman Islands, Aruba, Saint Lucia, Netherlands Antilles, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Anguilla, Nicaragua, Barbados, Micronesia, Wallis and Futuna, Kiribati, Western Samoa, Vanuatu, American Samoa, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Solomon Islands, Cook Islands, New Zealand, Tuvalu, French Polynesia, Guam, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Marshall Islands, Tonga, Palau, Turkey, Yemen, Iraq, Oman, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon
No additional import charges at delivery!
Quantity:
Change country:
There are 99 items available. Please enter a number less than or equal to 99.
Select a valid country.
Please enter 5 or 9 numbers for the ZIP Code.
Shipping and handling
Each additional item
US $3.99
Estimated between Fri. Mar. 1 and Wed. Mar. 6
US $7.99
Estimated between Thu. Feb. 28 and Mon. Mar. 4
Handling time
Taxes
Sales tax may apply when shipping to: IA*, MN*, WA*.
* Tax applies to subtotal + S&H for these states only
Return policy
Refund will be given as
Return shipping
14 days
Money back
Buyer pays for return shipping
Refer to eBay Return policy for more details. You are covered by the eBay Money Back Guarantee if you receive an item that is not as described in the listing.
Payment details
Payment method
Special financing available
Select PayPal Credit at checkout to have the option to pay over time.
Qualifying purchases could enjoy No Interest if paid in full in 6 months on purchases of $99 or more. Other offers may also be available.
Interest will be charged to your account from the purchase date if the balance is not paid in full within 6 months. Minimum monthly payments are required. Subject to credit approval. See terms - opens in a new window or tab
The PayPal Credit account is issued by Synchrony Bank.
 
46
Positive
0
Neutral
0
Negative
by b***r
During past month
Fast shipping!  great deal,  top notch seller,  awesome service!  All 5 stars!!
by n***n
During past month
Fun fake bills to give to people and fast service.
by _***e
by a***c
During past month
by d***i
During past month
by d***l
During past month
by a***1
During past month
