Donald Trump is a ridiculous human being. I think that's a safe thing to say to those who support the man as a legitimate presidential candidate and those who view him as a bafoon full of the hottest of hot air possibly heated by a single person.
One thing about Trump that apparently cannot be disputed is the fact that he played baseball as a youngster.
Longtime Trump followers may remember an interview he did with MTV back in 2010 in which he spoke about once being an aspiring professional ballplayer.
“I was captain of the baseball team,” Trump told MTV  about his high school playing days. “I was supposed to be a professional baseball player. Fortunately, I decided to go into real estate instead. I played first base and I also played catcher. I was a good hitter. I just had a good time.”
You might be saying, "So what? I aspired to be an NBA point guard back when I was six years old playing in my parents driveway."
But the Trump baseball thing is apparently somewhat legit and a former teacher of his told Rolling Stone that he was once scouted by the Philadelphia Phillies. Another report from earlier this summer says the Boston Red Sox took a peek in on Trump action too which would make a current-day Tom Brady happy.
Thankfully Trump was too greedy to play for the Phillies. He wanted to make real money and Ruben Amaro Jr. was only a bat boy at the time.
Remember the time Donald Trump almost played for the Phillies? Really, a former teacher tells @RollingStone pic.twitter.com/7YK5whHIRl
Don't get too excited about Alshon Jeffery wanting Eagles to bring back Kelly green uniforms
Don't get too excited about Alshon Jeffery wanting Eagles to bring back Kelly green uniforms
Things have been pretty quiet on the Eagles front the past few weeks aside from the Nick Foles' franchise tag watch. Heck, even their home stadium has turned its turf to the hockey world this week as the Flyers are set to take on the Pittsburgh Penguins outside in South Philadelphia this weekend.
So it seems as good a time as any to talk about the Birds bringing back their Kelly green uniforms.
Their star wide receiver would love it.
Alshon Jeffery sparked this discussion last night when he tweeted at former Eagles quarterback Ron Jawarski about those sweet old-timey green uniforms.
Can we bring these uniforms back @Eagles ...
— Alshon Jeffery (@TheWorldof_AJ) February 21, 2019
"Can we bring these uniforms back
@
Eagles...," Alshon tweeted.
Philly fans have been saying the same thing for years. Obviously, there are obstacles. But the Eagles have said in the past year that they've been working on those hurdles.
“What we’re hoping to have happen ... the whole key is we want a kelly green helmet to go with the kelly green jersey. We’re trying to get the league to allow a second helmet. That’s where it’s at. They very much know we want this and we want it badly. We’re waiting," Lurie said.
There was no change in the rules for the 2018 season.
And while the Eagles have publicly stated their desire to bring back the Kelly green unis, there have been rumors inside the Eagles locker room that Mr. Lurie actually can't stand the Kelly green uniforms, that he associates them with the old regime's philosophy before he took over the franchise.
So, maybe you'll see Kelly green on Alshon Jeffery someday. Or maybe you won't. 
Brian Dawkins could motivate Eeyore.
His pregame speeches made you want to run through a brick wall. His motivational speeches now are just as incredible.
He actually spoke to Phillies prospects not long ago.
When @BrianDawkins speaks, you listen.
It's that simple. pic.twitter.com/neUYKlmnSg
So who better than the Eagles' legend to throw a free-agent pitch to Bryce Harper?
Dawkins did just that Tuesday night, tweeting at Harper about one great fit for Philadelphia.
@Bharper3407 no pressure... what say you... though it may be true that there could be some good fits out there... but GREAT fits? I can think of only ONE! Just sayin  @Phillies
"B-Dawk" fit this city like a glove. Many believe Harper would fit very similarly as his passion, intensity, hustle and toughness jive with the Philadelphia way.
In the past, Harper has actually shared his appreciation for Philly fans.
"I love coming in here and playing in this park, being able to play in front of these fans," he said in April 2017, via Ryan Lawrence .
Dawkins knows these fans. He also knows greatness.
He sees Harper as a great fit for Philly. Pretty soon, we'll see if Harper agrees.
Click here  to download the MyTeams App by NBC Sports! Receive comprehensive coverage of your teams and stream the Flyers, Sixers and Phillies games easily on your device.
More on the Phillies
