Hanoi named as venue for Kim-Trump summit as North Korean leader inspects military
The US president tweets that the North Korea leader he once derided will become a "different kind of rocket - an economic one!".
Fill 2 Copy 11
Kim Jong Un has celebrated the anniversary of the founding of his country's army on the day Donald Trump confirmed the pair will meet in Hanoi.
The North Korean leader marked the anniversary by meeting his forces and watching a choir, the North's state media reported.
Earlier, the US president confirmed he would be meeting Mr Kim in the Vietnamese capital on February 27 and 28.
Image: Kim Jong Un takes part in a military parade in celebration of his country's military
He had previously said the meeting would take place in Vietnam but did not identify the city where the summit would be held.
Mr Trump's representatives left North Korea after making plans to discuss the "complete denuclearization" of the Korean Peninsula, the president said, without providing any further detail.
He tweeted: "My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second summit with Kim Jong Un.
Image: Kim Jong Un watching a concert of the State Merited Chorus with his wife Ri Sol Ju
"It will take place in Hanoi, Vietnam, on February 27 & 28. I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim & advancing the cause of peace!"
More from North Korea
Referring to his description of Mr Kim as a "little rocket man", when relations between the two countries were at a low point, Mr Trump added: "North Korea, under the leadership of Kim Jong Un, will become a great Economic Powerhouse.
"He may surprise some but he won't surprise me, because I have gotten to know him & fully understand how capable he is. North Korea will become a different kind of Rocket - an Economic one!"
Image: North Korean soldiers cheer as Kim Jong Un passes by
After his last meeting with Mr Kim in Singapore last June, Mr Trump was criticised for failing to secure clear results or any treaties.
But the US leader later said the North Korea had written him "beautiful letters" and that the two "fell in love".
In footage aired by North Korean state-run television station KRT, Mr Kim was seen visiting the Ministry of People's Armed Forces and making a speech marking the 71st anniversary of Korean People's Army, which occurred on Friday.
KRT said Mr Kim had told his audience he remained determined to build a powerful socialist state.
He was later shown watching a concert of the State Merited Chorus with his wife Ri Sol Ju and attending a banquet with high-profile officials.
More stories
© 2019 Sky UK
We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Close
Close
