Supported by
Fact Check of the Day
White House Falsely Claims Trump Has Created More Jobs for Black Americans Than Obama Did
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said the economy added only 195,000 jobs for African-Americans under President Barack Obama. In fact, it added about three million.
By Linda Qiu
Aug. 14, 2018
what was said
“This president, since he took office, in the year and a half that he’s been here, has created 700,000 new jobs for African-Americans. That’s 700,000 African-Americans that are working now that weren’t working when this president took place. When President Obama left after eight years in office — eight years in office — he had only created 195,000 jobs for African-Americans. President Trump, in his first year and a half, has already tripled what President Obama did in eight years.”
— Sarah Huckabee Sanders, at a White House news briefing on Tuesday
the facts
False.
Ms. Sanders was responding to questions about whether Mr. Trump has ever used a racial slur . She said the president’s policies have helped black people.
But it is not true that the Trump administration has already created three times as many jobs for black Americans as the Obama administration did.
According to the latest data available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, about 708,000 more black Americans had jobs in July than in January 2017, the month Mr. Trump took office.
By contrast, the same data show, the economy added about three million jobs for black Americans between January 2009 and January 2017, during Mr. Obama’s presidency.
Mr. Obama took office at the height of the Great Recession, when the unemployment rate for black Americans was 12.7 percent. It increased to almost 17 percent, in March 2010, and then fell to 7.8 percent by January 2017, Mr. Obama’s last month in office.
The black unemployment rate has continued to fall under Mr. Trump and was 6.6 percent in July.
Ms. Sanders did not clarify what time frame she was referring to when comparing the numbers during Mr. Obama’s presidency to Mr. Trump’s.
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact. @ylindaqiu
Advertisement
