Our website uses cookies to improve its performance and enhance your user experience. Through cookies, certain personal data is collected and may be stored temporarily. You can change your cookie settings through your browser. More info: Privacy Policy
©                     AP Photo / Evan Vucci
David Malpass, Donald Trump's pick to lead the World Bank, is due to take part in the institution's presidential elections during April's Spring Meetings. Given the nominee's criticism towards the international financial organisation and its development initiatives, he may potentially meet opposition from the bank's other shareholders, media say.
On 6 February, Donald Trump nominated Undersecretary of the US Treasury David Malpass to be the next president of the World Bank , as the previous head of the institution, Jim Yong Kim, stepped down prematurely on 1 February.
Since the establishment of the World Bank, the US has chosen the organisation's head, being its major donor. Trump's pick, who has earlier overseen the government's relationship with the World Bank, is known as an ardent critic of the international organisation and a "hawk" with regard to China.
President Trump Announces the United States Candidate for Election as the Next President of the World Bank https://t.co/Fs3nTrcWFj
​Speaking at Malpass' nomination, Trump highlighted that his pick is "the right person to take this incredibly important job" and "a strong advocate for accountability at the World Bank".
"America is the largest contributor to the World Bank, giving over $1 billion every year", the US president said. "My administration has made it a top priority to ensure that US taxpayers' dollars are spent effectively and wisely, serve American interests, and defend American values".
It was earlier reported that the White House had also considered Mark Green, head of the US Agency for International Development, Ray Washburne, president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, US diplomat Robert Kimmitt, and former White House adviser and Goldman Sachs executive Dina Powell to lead the World Bank.
Trump's Pick Likely to Crack Down on China's Initiatives
©                     REUTERS / Jonathan Ernst
In his 7 February op-ed titled "What I would do as the next president of the World Bank", the nominee insisted that the bank "should work to move countries on from lending programmes when they achieve higher income levels, allowing it to concentrate on the developing nations most in need of lending".
The remark is aimed at Beijing: Malpass has repeatedly criticised the World Bank for giving a significant share of its resources to China, one of the world's largest economies.
According to the New York Times, in April 2018, he helped negotiate a $13 billion capital increase for the institution on condition that higher income countries such as China would face higher borrowing costs.
"China is absorbing decades of financial know-how into its institutions in a few short years, a similar pattern to its absorption of manufacturing technology", the Treasury official told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in November 2018.
In addition, he was particularly critical about China's One Belt One Road initiative, claiming during his testimony before the House Financial Services Committee in December 2018 that it would leave developing countries "with excessive debt and poor-quality projects".
As The South China Morning Post presumed on Thursday, Trump's decision to appoint Malpass "means US-China rivalry has a new front — development aid".
Why Malpass May Prompt Resistance From World Bank Shareholders
©                     AP Photo / Cliff Owen
The latest Hill op-ed describes Malpass as the man who deserves the position, stressing that he has "the management and leadership experience for the job", "a strong understanding of what the World Bank can do" and a "deep understanding of international affairs and the world". Additionally, he speaks Spanish, French and Russian, the media outlet highlights.
Meanwhile, some observers have called attention to the fact that it was Malpass, the Wall Street veteran, who overlooked the 2008 financial crisis. In his 2007 piece for the Wall Street Journal, the economist wrote that "housing and debt markets are not that big a part of the US economy, or of job creation". However, the US' subprime mortgage market problems in 2007 spiralled into an all-out global banking crisis in 2008.
For its part, Foreign Policy raised the question whether Malpass will "run the World Bank or ruin it".
"[Malpass] has faithfully echoed President Donald Trump's denunciations of multilateralism run amok, taking aim at institutions such as the World Trade Organization and the International Criminal Court", the magazine pointed out.
©                     AP Photo / Seth Wenig
According to the media outlet, Trump's choice mirrors the president's other nominations, "with leaders seemingly hand-picked to undermine the agencies they are tapped to lead".
The concerns voiced by the magazine have been circulated by the media since Jim Yong Kim's surprising resignation announcement on 7 January.
Thus, Quartz suggested that "US president Donald Trump's well-publicized skepticism of multilateral institutions may make the board hostile to his choices".
For its part, Vox argued that the World Bank's next head should not be an American : "A number of possible candidates come to mind, but perhaps the most obvious is Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala", a former foreign affairs and finance minister for Nigeria. The media outlet also named Raghuram Rajan, the former IMF chief economist, and African Development Bank President Akinwumi Adesina among potential candidates.
...
Related:
Add Comment
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Save
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Sputnik push notifications
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy
Register
* All fields are required
Please confirm your e-mail to continue. Confirmation instructions have been sent to
Are you sure you want to delete your Sputniknews.com account?
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy . It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy.
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com .
Next
Community standards
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
does not correspond with the subject of the post;
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
violates the rights of minors, causing them harm in any form, including moral damage;
contains ideas of extremist nature or calls for other illegal activities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
contains insults or messages expressing disrespect to Sputnik;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
describes or references scenes of violence, cruelty to animals;
contains information about methods of suicide, incites to commit suicide;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
promotes products or services of third parties without proper authorization;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
contains spam, advertises spamming, mass mailing services and promotes get-rich-quick schemes;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
contains links to viruses and malicious software;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
“floods” the discussion thread with a large number of incoherent or irrelevant messages;
violates etiquette, exhibiting any form of aggressive, humiliating or abusive behavior ("trolling");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
User ID
An explanation of the actions which were in violation of the rules above and resulted in the lock.
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Log in
