Drew Angerer/Getty Images, @973angle/Twitter
Trump Voters Are Starting To File Their Taxes And Are JUST NOW Finally Realizing They Got Screwed Over
Now that the government has reopened, tax filing is in full swing.
We tried to warn them. But they didn’t listen.
Those who voted for Donald Trump were in for a rude awakening at the sweeping changes as a result of the tax reform, and now it’s too late.
Trump signed the GOP’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), on December 22, 2017, allowing the rich to basically get richer.
The changes include reduced tax rates for banks and businesses; and a personal tax simplification by increasing standard deductions and family tax credits but eliminating personal exemptions on itemized deductions for state and local taxes. There is also a massive increase in the amount of money you must donate to qualify for charitable deductions.
While Trump’s tax plan benefits banks and corporations, middle-class filers are finding that they’re receiving significantly less than expected due to newly-reduced income brackets.
After being slapped in the face and realizing they’ve been had, the middle-class pro-Trumpers are taking to Twitter and sounding off on getting screwed over.
Worse tax return I had in a decade! I admit I voted for @realDonaldTrump but he has officially lost my vote for 2020.
@POTUS thank you for screwing the middle class with your tax reform. I have never in my life, I’m 49 years old, had to pay into the IRS until this year. We have a combined income of 150,000. The middle class voted for you. I will not make the same mistake twice.
There are some major regrets. But it came too late.
Wait, what happened? My tax refund is half of last year.
I thought we were all going to get an additional $4k. LIES! Has anyone seen any improvement?
Worse tax return I had in a decade! I admit I voted for @realDonaldTrump but he has officially lost my vote for 2020.
— A9N7G3 (@973angie) January 23, 2019
Voted for you . Family of
2 hard working N.Y. cops. Did taxes for years we would pay more and get a refund at the end of the year to help pay debt . First time in 30 years We had to pay more in Federal
Taxes. I’m disgusted
Thanks to @realDonaldTrump and @GOP tax bill, my family was just hit with the largest tax increase in our lives by them getting rid of itemized deductions like mortgage interest on federal taxes.
I’ve been a loyal conservative, voting Republican since I could vote.
What a joke!
NOW she doubts Trump? She is tardy.
Wait til you file your taxes. Middle class just lost half their return. Lowest refund I have ever had and I am 50yrs old. No wall and now this tax reform sucks too!! Starting to doubt Trump. I voted for him and trusted him too.
Their anger is justified, with many suddenly having to owe upwards of thousands of dollars to the IRS.
I have to pay $2000 MORE in taxes this year! What happened?? I voted for you and thought you were fixing this, not making it worse!? I thought I would get money back this year!?
But they ignored the warning signs and voted for Trump anyway. This is what happens. And we all suffer.
The plan is to not vote for the GOP next election. The plan is to start voting for your own interests & that of your family & friends. You knew this would happen. It was literally on every channel, except Fox. every night for months. We tried to warn you.
Which is exactly what everyone that was paying attention said was going to happen. Sigh.
At first he came for the Muslims
And you cheered him on
Then he came for the immigrants
And you cheered him on still
Then he came for the trans people..
And the media…
And now he's come for your wallet.
And the only people left are those who have never cared about you.
Trouble in MAGA paradise?? Say it isn't so…  pic.twitter.com/NfNftnrRJ3
— JΞSŦΞR ✪ ΔCŦUΔL³³º¹ (@th3j35t3r) February 5, 2019
The trump voters are getting what they deserve! Why any of them thought this arrogant billionaire buffoon who was known for screwing over the little guy would ever give 2 shits about them, I'll never understand.
THAT'S the straw that finally broke the camel's back, eh? Tweets like this just only reassure me that you Einsteins that actually believed him and therefore screwed over the rest of the country are getting EXACTLY what you deserve. Good luck with that.
