21% of Americans approve of Congress' job performance, unchanged from October
35% of Republicans, 9% of Democrats approve of the job Congress is doing
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Americans' approval of the way Congress is handling its job held steady at 21% in a Nov. 1-11 Gallup survey, unchanged from October. While low historically, that level generally matches the high ebb for congressional approval in the past few years, except for a 28% reading shortly after President Donald Trump's inauguration.
The flip side of 21% of Americans approving of Congress is the finding that 74% disapprove this month. This was the public's mood at the time of the Nov. 6 midterms that resulted in Republicans losing control of the House while maintaining their hold on the Senate.
The current 21% of Americans who approve of the job Congress is doing is slightly above the year-to-date average of 18% for 2018. However, these readings are below the 31% approval that Congress has averaged since Gallup first began asking the question in 1974.
Thirty-five percent of Republicans currently say they approve of the job Congress is doing, about the same as the 36% who approved in October. These readings from the past two months are near the highest levels recorded since Trump's inauguration in early 2017. Before Trump took office, Republicans had substantially lower approval ratings of Congress.
Democrats' approval of Congress sank following Trump's inauguration and has remained at or below 16% since then. Currently, 9% of Democrats approve of the job Congress is doing, down slightly from 12% in October.
Given the upcoming shift in control of the House of Representatives, it is possible that Democrats' views of Congress will improve in January, in expectation that their party's control of the House will result in passing policies that Democrats endorse. Alternatively, Republicans' approval may slump if they foresee less possibility for the passage of GOP-backed legislation.
Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 1-11, 2018, with a random sample of 1,037 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. For results based on the total sample of national adults, the margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for weighting.
Each sample of national adults includes a minimum quota of 70% cellphone respondents and 30% landline respondents, with additional minimum quotas by time zone within region. Landline and cellular telephone numbers are selected using random-digit-dial methods.
Related Topics Include:
Never miss our latest insights.
November 13, 2018
Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A
Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ, Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer, Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc.
