root 2 weeks ago
Mr. Trump was also reportedly tweeting while under sedation which his physician called “superhuman”
President Trump thanking Dr. Sean Conley after the physician reported that POTUS had “a first-rate derriere.” (Credit: www.pbs.org)
After Donald Trump received a colonoscopy during his annual physical exam at Walter Reed Medical Center on Friday, his doctor reported that the president had “the most brawny, beautiful, powerfully-built butt I have ever seen.”
Mr. Trump indicating which thumb Dr. Conley had up his rectum during his colonoscopy on Friday,. (Credit: www.washingtonpost.com)
The excessively complimentary language used by Dr. Sean Conley, a Navy officer and the president’s personal physician, was being compared to a similarly obsequious report issued by Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, Mr. Trump ’s sycophantic physician last year.
Dr. Conley was no less fawning in his assessment of the president’s health on Friday saying “I have never examined a finer human specimen than President Trump . Listening to his heartbeat and taking his blood pressure, I was nearly brought to tears wishing that all Americans could be as healthy as our president.”
Dr. Conley called this “the most burly, brawny, powerfully-built butt I have ever seen,” while others just call it “a great, big ass.” (Credit:mtonews.com)
Asked about Mr. Trump ’s obesity, which was a point of mild concern in Dr. Jackson’s medical report last year, Dr. Conley laughed.
“Oh my gosh, no, not a problem at all,” he said, while holding up a photo of Donald Trump playing golf as a much younger man. “Anybody who has been around the president’s strapping six-foot, three-inch frame knows he is perfectly proportioned. In fact, I told him he should probably add a few more pounds, not lose any.”
One independent physician, Dr. Lucius Verity from John Hopkins University Hospital in Baltimore, after hearing Dr. Conley’s evaluation of the president’s health said, “That was clearly the most unctuous, falsely flattering, cringe-worthy medical assessment ever issued. For the record, Donald Trump is a fat, pasty, sleep -deprived, walking poster boy for everything our citizens should not do if they want to stay alive.”
****
For more of Allan’s anti- Trump satire go here or here to see two popular past posts.
Or check out his original Trump -themed book of mockery at allanishac.com .
More Trump humor at allanishac.com.
January 13, 2019
November 29, 2018
January 2, 2019
4 weeks ago
January 7, 2019
October 18, 2017
November 21, 2018
November 19, 2018
March 15, 2018
November 17, 2017
October 30, 2018
September 1, 2018
[…] Visit direct link […]...
[…] Visit direct link […]...
Pin It on Pinterest
