Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Memes, tweets poke fun on social media at President Trump's visit to El Paso
El Paso social media pokes fun at President Donald Trump's visit with memes, jokes and Chico's Tacos and Beto O'Rourke references.
Post to Facebook
Memes, tweets poke fun on social media at President Trump's visit to El Paso El Paso social media pokes fun at President Donald Trump's visit with memes, jokes and Chico's Tacos and Beto O'Rourke references. Check out this story on ElPasoTimes.com: https://www.elpasotimes.com/story/news/politics/2019/02/08/donald-trump-visit-el-paso-border-stirs-fun-chicos-tacos-memes-jokes-social-media/2805494002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Memes, tweets poke fun on social media at President Trump's visit to El Paso
Times staff report, El Paso Times Published 6:45 a.m. MT Feb. 8, 2019
CLOSE
El Pasoans take to Twitter to defend the city after President Trump said El Paso was unsafe before the border fence went up in his State of the Union. Trish Long, El Paso Times
El Pasoans had fun on social media with President Donald Trump's upcoming visit to their border city.
Trump will have a "Make America Great Again" campaign rally Monday at the El Paso County Coliseum. It is his first official visit to El Paso.
President Donald Trump listens during a meeting with Hispanic pastors in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington on Friday, Jan. 25, 2019.
 (Photo11: Susan Walsh/Associated Press)
Social media jokes mocked Trump's  erroneous State of the Union description of El Paso once being one of the most dangerous cities in the nation. He wrongly claimed El Paso immediately became one of the nation's safest large cities because of border fencing.
One tweet advised Trump not to forget to get some of El Paso's famous Chico's Tacos because "they're dangerously delicious."
Hey Donald Trump, don't forget to buy some Chicos Tacos while your in El Paso. They're dangerously delicious. (Photo is from El Paso Times) pic.twitter.com/cgWgW0zlP1
Chico's Tacos is a small El Paso restaurant chain founded on July 4,1953. It's original location on Alameda Avenue is near the coliseum.
The restaurant is known for its crispy rolled tacos in a soupy red sauce, covered in cheese. The popular tacos can be an acquired taste.
"The only violence in El Paso was when Chico's changed its cheese," joked a meme.
Another tweet jokingly depicts Trump on stage getting scared after hearing blaring Mexican music as "El Paso pulls up to the coliseum."
The coliseum is a few blocks from the U.S.-Mexico border and regularly hosts concerts by Spanish-language artists, rodeos and other events.
It's an El Paso thing. Click here to  subscribe to elpasotimes.com .
El Paso pulling up to the coliseum pic.twitter.com/bmQuzokR8H
A tweet jokes about former El Paso U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke showing up at the Trump rally to enter the 2020 presidential race.
The tweet features a GIF of the late WWE wrestling legend the Ultimate Warrior rushing toward a ring to bring the smack down.
O'Rourke is contemplating a run for president. In a recent interview with Oprah Winfrey,   recent interview with Oprah Winfrey, the Texas Democrat said that he would decide on a presidential run by the end of the month.
@BetoORourke entering the presidential race at the Trump rally in El Paso, Texas. pic.twitter.com/sqOVa6Gjqn
 
 
more12 stories12
Subscribe Now
