stop
Loading...
Loading...
Unlimited DVR storage space. Live TV from 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Close
President Trump: Never, ever, give up. Adversity makes you stronger ☆ The Power of Positive Thinking
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on May 19, 2017
From Citizen Kane to President Trump - Ignorance in Creation and The Power of Positive Thinking -- May 17, 2017 President Donald J. Trump: -- Now, I want to take this opportunity to give you some advice. Over the course of your life, you will find that things are not always fair. You will find that things happen to you that you do not deserve and that are not always warranted. But you have to put your head down and fight, fight, fight. Never, ever, ever give up. Things will work out just fine.
Look at the way I’ve been treated lately — (laughter) — especially by the media. No politician in history — and I say this with great surety — has been treated worse or more unfairly. You can’t let them get you down. You can’t let the critics and the naysayers get in the way of your dreams. (Applause.) I guess that’s why I — thank you. I guess that’s why we won.
Adversity makes you stronger. Don’t give in. Don’t back down. And never stop doing what you know is right. Nothing worth doing ever, ever, ever came easy. And the more righteous your right, the more opposition that you will face.
I’ve accomplished a tremendous amount in a very short time as President.
Norman Vincent Peale (May 31, 1898 – December 24, 1993) was an American minister and author known for his work in popularizing the concept of positive thinking, especially through his best-selling book The Power of Positive Thinking. He served as the pastor of Marble Collegiate Church, New York, from 1932 until his death, leading a Reformed Church in America congregation. Peale was a personal friend of Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan, and two other presidents, Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, have praised his teachings.
Peale was politically and personally close to President Richard Nixon's family. In 1968 he officiated at the wedding of Julie Nixon and David Eisenhower. He continued calling at the White House throughout the Watergate crisis, saying "Christ didn't shy away from people in trouble."
Peale was also a 33° Scottish Rite Freemason.[11]
He died of a stroke on December 24, 1993 at age 95 in Pawling, New York.
As a child, Donald Trump attended Marble Collegiate Church with his parents, Fred and Mary. Both he and his two sisters were married there. Trump has repeatedly praised Peale and cited him as a formative influence.[35]
Mary Anne MacLeod Trump (Scottish Gaelic: Màiri Anna NicLeòid; May 10, 1912 – August 7, 2000) was the Scottish-born American mother of the 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump.
Mary Anne MacLeod was born in the village of Tong, on Lewis in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland, United Kingdom, in a croft house numbered "5 Tong" (owned by her father since 1895). Her paternal grandparents were Alexander MacLeod and Ann MacLeod and maternal grandparents were Donald Smith and Mary MacAulay. Her family were members of the Church of Scotland.
The Marble Collegiate Church, founded in 1628, is one of the oldest continuous Protestant congregations in North America.
The church congregation was founded in 1628 as the Collegiate Reformed Protestant Dutch Church and was affiliated with the Dutch Reformed Church, a Calvinist church in the Netherlands.
Norman Vincent Peale, the noted author of The Power of Positive Thinking, served as senior minister from 1932 to 1984. Under his ministry Marble's influence reached national levels and became known as "America's Hometown Church".
During his successful 2015–16 run for the Republican Party's presidential nomination, President Donald Trump told a 2015 South Carolina campaign audience that he attends Marble Collegiate Church. The church is where he was married by Dr. Peale to his first wife, Ivana Trump, in 1977. In 1993, Marble's Minister Dr. Arthur Caliandro, performed Trump's marriage to Marla Maples in the Grand Ballroom of the Plaza Hotel owned at the time by Trump.
The White House
New London, Connecticut
Loading...
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
