By Frederick Kempe
February brings the most significant series of tests yet of whether President Trump can transform his disruptive US foreign policy into concrete outcomes. The four to watch most closely, all of dizzying importance, are negotiating a trade deal with China, denuclearizing North Korea, rallying an international community to contain Iran and democratizing Venezuela.
Trump’s trade team, led by US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, will visit China early next week seeking progress toward a trade deal before a March 1 deadline, ending a 90-day truce agreed to by the two country’s leaders at the G20 in Buenos Aires.
That would not only head off the increase of tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods from 10% to 25%, but it would also show markets that the world’s two leading economies can find mutually beneficial ways to settle trade differences. More important over time will be to see whether the two sides can as well navigate even more difficult disputes over future technologies and regional security issues.
On North Korea, President Trump in his State of the Union address – otherwise light on foreign policy issues – said he would meet for his second summit with Kim Jong-un on February 27-28 in Vietnam. “If I had not been elected president of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea,” said Trump.
The meeting will be a test of whether the “great chemistry” Trump says he has developed with Kim will help him achieve gains toward denuclearization, building upon the release of three American prisoners and the remains of 55 American soldiers. While his intelligence community, in a report to Congress last week, said North Korea is “unlikely to completely give up its nuclear weapons and production capability,” Trump aims to show he is correct that there is a “good chance” of a deal because Kim so badly wants to engineer an economic turnaround.
This week, on February 13-14, Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will host in Warsaw, Poland an international conference on peace and security in the Middle East (even as the US pulls its troops out of Syria by April). Media reporting is skeptical about whether the meeting can produce more pressure on Iran, garner support for an emerging Trump administration Mideast peace plan between Israel and the Palestinians or lay the groundwork for an alliance of Arab states to advance common interests.
What the conference, involving more than 40 countries, underscores is the continued US ability to convene, even if many countries won’t be sending ministerial level representatives. What I’ll be watching:
Interactions among Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the foreign ministers of Bahrain, Jordan, Oman, the UAE and Saudi Arabia – particularly given US efforts to promote warmer Israeli-Gulf relations.
Progress toward a new Arab defense coalition, referred to as a “historic alliance” by Secretary Pompeo. In an interview this week with Fox Business Network, Pompeo said “a big number of countries (would) announce that they want to be part of this here in the not-too-distant future, and we’ll develop an outline that isn’t reactive.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*            *            *
 
 
The week’s top reads below capture more questions about Trump’s foreign policy, our new world of nuclear weapons, the ongoing US-Chinese tech drama and this week’s 40th anniversary of the Iranian revolution.
Onward and upward,
Nahal Toosi / POLITICO
Peggy Noonan / WALL STREET JOURNAL
 
Despite much handwringing over the effect Trump’s disruptive approach might have on US global leadership and the strength of US alliances, “some of these critics grudgingly concede that Trump’s bulldozer mentality has pushed leaders of all political stripes into difficult conversations they’d long avoided … after all, on these and other fronts that have long troubled U.S. leaders — America’s ongoing presence in Afghanistan, potential long-term involvement in Syria, NATO defense spending and more — there was little or no movement until Trump took office,” Toosi writes.  Read More →
 
While “everything depends on personnel, process and planning,” she writes ”the president is famously impulsive, uninterested in deep study, not systematic in his thinking. His recently leaked schedules give no sign he spends a lot of time forging deeper relationships with advisers and agency heads on whom one day a great deal may depend. There is a marked lack of trust between the intelligence community and the White House—and intelligence is front and center during a crisis.”  Read More →
#2 THE NEW NUCLEAR THREAT
DER SPIEGEL
Jon Huntsman Jr. / DESERET NEWS
The German magazine Spiegel provides the best, long-form reflection I’ve seen yet on why the INF Treaty had ceased to serve its purpose. It goes further than that, however, and reports richly on the next generation weapons Russia is fielding – and how hard it will be for traditional forms of deterrence to work when the Kremlin can so easily and quickly strike European targets that become increasingly hard to defend from the US mainland.  Read More →
The Atlantic Council’s former chairman Jon Huntsman, now US ambassador to Russia, sizes up the stakes in his home state newspaper the Deseret News. He reminds readers that “Russia signed the INF Treaty and agreed to eliminate its ground-launched intermediate range missiles… because its leaders realized that the absence of such weapons would make Russia more secure, not less.” In arguing for Russia to seize a “last chance” to return to INF compliance during the US six-month notification period, he argues that abandoning the treaty will make Russia less secure.  Read More →
#3 CHINA’S UNCERTAIN TRAJECTORY
Daniel Blumenthal / THE ATLANTIC
 
So with the globe’s most significant bilateral relationship turning even more uncertain, two pieces this week are worth reading.  Gary Schmitt in the American Interest provides a smart, well-researched account on how US hopes were dashed by Chinese developments – and why a confrontation of some sort was inevitable.  Read More →
Daniel Blumenthal provides an even more useful account in the Atlantic, given its reflection on numerous ups and downs in Chinese history. He raises legitimate questions about the durability of President Xi’s approach “as China’s economy slows and its politics are consolidated around a new high-tech police state…. As policy makers and scholars stand in awe of what China has accomplished since 1978, they must also continue to examine the internal workings of the system for signs of trouble ahead.”  Read More →
#4 A DIGITAL IRON CURTAIN?
Adam Segal, Cobus van Staden, Elsa B. Kania, Samm Sacks, Elliott Zaagman / FOREIGN POLICY
Josh Chin / WALL STREET JOURNAL
 
 
 
“…especially development economies,” the authors write, “may not find Huawei so threatening.” They may believe they can’t stop China and the US from spying on them “and given that reality, they might as well benefit from cheap, reliable Huawei equipment.”  Read More →
#5 THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC TURNS 40; THE UAE WELCOMES THE POPE
 
 
“But,” writes the FT’s Najmeh Bozorgmehr, “for the first time in four decades there is a serious debate inside the country over whether the Islamic Republic can survive in its current form… battered by sanctions, criticised over its involvement in foreign conflicts in Iraq, Syria and Yemen, and distracted by internal splits over who will replace the ageing supreme leader, the Islamic Republic looks highly vulnerable.”  Read More →
 
 
“Sixty years ago deep in the desert, missionary doctors and Bedouin villagers built a bridge between two faiths with acts of kindness and understanding. We can do it again.”  Read More →
Frederick Kempe is president and chief executive officer of the Atlantic Council. You can follow him on Twitter @FredKempe. Subscribe to his weekly InflectionPoints  newsletter .
RELATED CONTENT
Expert analysis on the most pressing issues facing the transatlantic community from the Council's staff, board, affiliated scholars, and friends.
The views expressed in New Atlanticist are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Atlantic Council, its staff, or its supporters.
MOST POPULAR: NEW ATLANTICIST
February 19, 2019
February 13, 2019
February 13, 2019
