Testimonials
There is no top 10 Forex managed accounts companies since there is only one at the top who provide the most reliable Forex managed accounts trading and that is City Of Investment. I can vouch for City Of Investment managed Forex funds as the best managed Forex accounts company. I have even told my friends and families to invest in a Forex managed accounts with City Of Investment since their managed Forex accounts have very good results annually.
Justin Blake
Justin Blake, UK
For many years I have been in search for a reliable forex managed accounts service to manage my Forex funds in the Forex market. I went through the top 10 Forex managed account companies through the years from 2002 to 2005 with no success in my online investment. I met a property developer in a Mayfair trendy bar and stated I have been looking at the wrong Forex managed accounts services. The property developer disclosed his managed Forex funds trading reports and stated he has been an investor with City Of Investment Forex managed accounts since his time in Dubai. Every year City Of Investment have made Forex profits from his Forex managed accounts yearly. The property developer has no complaints and told me I could do the same and claw back all my previous losses made with other top 10 Forex managed accounts companies.
The property developer was bang on the money. I have not looked back and consider City Of Investment the most reliable forex managed accounts service in the world. Their managed Forex accounts have low minimum deposits of 1000 EUR.
Chris Taylor
Chris Taylor, UK
I was having difficulty finding a trustworthy Forex investment company to manage my investment. I had already invested with an independent Forex manager in my city Shanghai, China, with very poor results. I did not know what to do. My Real Estate boss overheard my conversation about my failed Forex investment. My boss pointed out he has invested with City Of Investment and the experienced Forex traders from London are making him a fortune. I too then invested with City Of Investment and I have not looked back since. Finally, I am excited and can look forward to the future.
Wei Li
Wei Li, China
As an investor and a partner in bringing business, I am impressed by the professionalism and profitable returns by City Of Investment and their Forex program. It is easy to bring business when as an investor I am making money in my investments with City Of Investment. New investors introduced are worshipping me for showing them the way to City Of Investment.
Debra Sivertsen
Debra Sivertsen, South Africa
Cityofinvestment.com has demonstrated integrity and honesty over the long term. When many investments firms appear just long enough to make a quick few dollars and leave, Cityofinvestment.com are here to stay and run our investments to the top of Mount Everest.
Karl-Heinz Schroeder
Karl-Heinz Schroeder, Austria
City Of Investment and other Holding Groups have been my UK Forex managers for the past 11 years. During this time I have made handsome profits that have given me secured investment future. I have the peace of mind of knowing that my money is being looked after very professionally.
Akira Suzuki
Akira Suzuki, Japan
I have been a client for the automated Forex trading system run by the trading team since 2006. Following my retirement I was keen to ensure a safe and reliable return for my investments. The automated Forex trading system ROI has been rising for over a decade when stock markets have crashed and rallied only to fall again. My money is protected from losses and has made money whilst friends and others have made substantial losses in their bad investment choices. After friends looked at my investments, they too have joined the club and have invested into the automated Forex trading system. City Of Investment is a trustworthy company and I would recommend them to investors.
Donnie Chow
Donnie Chow, Hong Kong
As an investor, I am constantly searching for secureinvestment opportunities and the ones presented by City Of Investment in the Forex market always rise to the top. City Of Investment has a disciplined strategy which has exceeded my expectations.
Chen Xingliang
Chen Xingliang, China
I would like to personally thank City Of Investment and their very talented team for helping me working towards and achieving my goals in becoming a multi-millionaire. I need a few years more to achieve my targets in life. I would also suggest to our Italian Government that to get Italy out of debt, the Italian government should invest with City Of Investment. We will have a better financial future, if we all Italians invested with City Of Investment.
Silvio Rossi
Silvio Rossi, Italy
My investment has been with this trading group since the time they started in London working for Banks. They are very clinical with the way they trade and have absolute profitable performance over long term. They have worked for a number of high net value individuals for many years and their Forex trading system has been operating on many private funds and individuals trading account. I am grateful City Of Investment is open to retail clients with smaller deposits, so they can profit too. I have asked friends and families who are not so rich to invest, so they can have a secured future like myself.
Robert Lussier
Robert Lussier, United Arab Emirates
I have a dozen different types of investments in Slovenia and internationally but City Of Investment rank amongst the absolute best. They are very experienced and knowledgeable in the Forex management field. They are professional and my rate of return on my investment is good enough for me to take longer holidays to the sea on my yacht.
JureKodric
JureKodric, Slovenia
I purchased a Peter Bain Forex course who calls himself a Forex mentor. The idea was for me to learn and trade Forex. It was the worst decision I have ever made and I was scammed by Peter Bain. So I decided I cannot trade and leave it for a professional investment company to handle my investment. I heard good stories about City Of Investment in my city, so I invested money. It was the best decision of my life and I am earning more money than ever before.
Robert Orr
Robert Orr, Canada
I am fortunate and thankful to be with City Of Investment professionals and I have invested a lot of money with the secure online investment company. With their Forex trading system, they have proven to be focused on safeguarding my hard earned money and my future.
Sophia Georgiou
Sophia Georgiou, Greece
City Of Investment trading group have assisted us for the past 5 years. We have not hesitated to recommend their services to our relatives and friends. We are truly lucky to have found a group of Forex traders who have made Forex investments easy without stress. We log on every month to check how our investment is performing. We have patience and understand we need to give 6 – 12 months to fully understand how our investments are doing.It has been 5 years and we know we are with the right team at City Of Investment.
Sheikh Mohammed
Sheikh Mohammed, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
I have invested in all three investment packages with City Of Investment and they are the best in the Forex business. They really know their stuff. It was easy; I looked at www.cityofinvestment.com website and opened a Forex managed account online. It was quick and easy to register and open a Forex managed account. I have been making consistent average return on a rolling 12 months period on my money and I can withdraw profits at any time. I have never been able to make as much money as I have since I joined City Of Investment. I have told all my friends and family to give City Of Investment a try, if they want to be successful with their investments. Thank you City Of Investment!
Andrey Goncharenko
Andrey Goncharenko, Russia
I’ve been retired for so many years and have invested a good portion of my life savings with City Of Investment and their trading system. My quality of life has improved because of this great company and I have become a millionaire.
James Winston
UK, Investment
I finished some Forex trading course in London city and then tried to trade myself with a Forex broker. That was awful experience. I’ve been trading days and nights long but with little success. So I decided to look for a reliable investment management company with a wealth of experience to handle my investment and recover my losses. I found City Of Investment online and opened a Forex managed account. Not only did they recover my losses, they also made a tidy profit.  I hope to become a multi-millionaire in the next few years with compounded returns by leaving my investment with City Of Investment for many years to come
Charles Davenport
Charles Davenport, UK
I am a client for City Of Investment for almost 5 years with a six figure investment. In all honesty, it has been the best thing I have done in years. Thank you so much City Of Investment for all your hard work.
SalmanAbdulaziz
SalmanAbdulaziz, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Before I look at potential investments with my hard earned cash, on my high priority list is preservation of principal investment, which is the most important aspect. That is the major reason why I invest with City Of Investment. With so little risk and high profitable returns, I cannot think of a superior investment
Jean-Pierre Lombard
Jean-Pierre Lombard, France
Professional footballers in the English Premier League can earn astonishing weekly income during their career. But after retiring from football, you’ve got to be able to rely on how well you make your money work for you. We are really pleased with our managed Forex investment with City Of Investment. Their Forex trading system performed exactly as promised looking at the previous trading performance history and we are very happy indeed. Every year we take out 10% interest and leave the rest of investment to compound. Bank Interest deposit accounts only give 3%interest, if you are lucky. With City Of Investment, we have a chance of becoming billionaires when we will be in retirement. We are still a very young family and have many years ahead of us to grow our investment.
John Rowland
Spot Forex is a leveraged financial product geared towards the sophisticated investor(s) which can result in losses far greater than your starting deposit or any further deposits made after, and therefore you should only speculate with money that you can afford to risk and lose. All Forex trading involves risks and losses can exceed deposits. Please make certain you fully understand the risks involved and ensure your get independent advice, if necessary, prior to entering into such transactions. Our services at City Of Investment include Forex products that are traded on margin and carry a risk that you can lose more than your initial deposit. The managed Forex accounts services and products may not be suitable for everyone. Please be sure to read our Full Risk Disclaimer. Additionally, any Forex opinions, Forex research, Forex news, Forex analyses, Forex prices, Forex Performance or any other information contained on this website www.cityofinvestment.com are provided as general market commentary and do not constitute investment advice. The information on this City Of Investment site is not directed at residents of the United States, Canada, and is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person in any country or jurisdiction where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation. The information is provided to all and is limited to market commentary and data, examples, description and product information. By using any of our products on our website cityofinvestment.com, you acknowledge that you are fully aware of these risks and that you are solely responsible for the consequences of your decisions. We accept no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from the use of our products on our website. Risk Disclaimer: Please be warned that trading in any market carries risk, and trading foreign exchange (“FX”), futures, options, contract for differences (CFDs) and precious metals involve a substantial risk of loss that may not be suitable for you or any person. Leverage or “gearing” creates enhanced risk and loss exposure. If you decide to trade or invest in these markets / Forex markets, we ask that you carefully consider your trading or investment objectives, experience, and risk appetite before choosing City Of Investment Forex managed account services. Even though risk can be managed, it cannot be eliminated and losses can quickly compound and exceed your initial deposit. You are liable for all losses and debits in your Forex trading account. PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT NECESSARILY INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THE RISK OF LOSS IN TRADING COMMODITY FUTURES, OPTIONS, AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE ("FOREX") IS SUBSTANTIAL.  TAGS: managed forex - managed forex accounts - forex managed accounts - fx - investment - investment account - online investment - investment management company - investment opportunities - investment company - make money online - city of investment
