President Trump Trolls Fake Indian Elizabeth Warren Hours After She Formally Announces 2020 Presidential Bid Featured
Written by    Cristina Laila
President Trump trolled fake Indian Elizabeth Warren just hours after she officially announced her 2020 presidential bid.
The President wondered if Warren was going to run as the first Native American presidential candidate — this was amazing!
TRUMP: Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!
Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren officially launched her 2020 presidential bid on Saturday at an outdoor rally at Everett Mills and painted a picture of doom and gloom.
“This is a fight for our lives. The fight to build an America where dreams are possible, an America that works for everyone. I am in that fight all the way,” Pocahontas said. “And that is why I stand here today, to declare that I am a candidate for president of the United States of America.”
The Trump campaign immediately released a statement after Elizabeth Warren formally launched her presidential run and called the Democrat Massachusetts Senator a “fraud.”
“Elizabeth Warren has already been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected,” Trump’s campaign manager Brad Parscale said.
“The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle class. Only under President Trump’s leadership will America continue to grow safer, secure and more prosperous,” Parscale added.
Parscale is absolutely correct — Elizabeth Warren is a fraud and used her fake Native American heritage to advance her career.
Earlier this week, using an open records request during a general inquiry, The Washington Post obtained Elizabeth Warren’s registration card for the State Bar of Texas, revealing Warren identified as an “American Indian.”
Elizabeth Warren has made up elaborate stories over the years to bolster her claims that she is Native American.
The Massachusetts Senator even claimed her parents had to elope because her father’s parents were racist and didn’t approve of their son’s Cherokee girlfriend — she shamelessly claimed her Pawpaw’s high cheekbones were proof she is of Native American descent.
In 1996 the Harvard Crimson identified Elizabeth Warren as a woman of color and Native American.
In 1998 Harvard bragged Elizabeth Warren, “who is Native American”, was their only minority tenured woman on staff.
Elizabeth Warren took what could have been given to a REAL Native American — she’s a white woman who stole from minorities and now she’s claiming she will fight for ‘people of color.’
The 2020 presidential election cycle is going to be wild!
Trump needles new presidential candidate Warren on Native American claims
President Trump wasted little time Saturday before needling newly declared presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren over her controversial efforts to align herself with Native Americans.
Warren, Democratic Massachusetts senator, officially announced her candidacy on Saturday in Lawrence.
Touting a progressive agenda, she didn't refer to recent controversies over her longstanding claims about having a Native American heritage.
No matter. Within hours, Trump made it clear he was happy to reference the issue himself, even if she wouldn;t. He did so on Twitter, where he made light of Warren and threw down a campaign gauntlet.
"Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President," Trump wrote early Saturday evening ."Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!"
Earlier in the day, in announcing her candidacy, Warren didn't name-check the president, but she did reference him, saying “the man in the White House is not the cause of what’s broken, he’s just the latest and most extreme symptom of what’s gone wrong in America.”
She also talked of her roots in Oklahoma. saying "when my daddy had a heart attack, my family nearly tumbled over the financial cliff."
One thing she didn't mention, though, was her claims of Native American ancestry, which first came to the fore during her 2012 victory over then-Republican Sen. Scott Brown of Massachusetts.
Her October release of a DNA test, meant to bolster her longstanding claims in hopes of settling the controversy before she launched a presidential bid, was widely panned. The move was intended to rebut Trump’s controversial taunts of Warren as “Pocahontas.” Instead, her use of a genetic test to prove ethnicity spurred controversy that seemed to blunt any argument she sought to make.
The taking of the DNA test also angered some tribal leaders of the Cherokee Nation, which resulted in an apology by Warren to the tribe. And she apologized again in the last couple of days after the surfacing of a 1986 registration card for the Texas state bar showed that she had written “American Indian” as her race. The inability to put the controversy to rest has proved to be a distraction to Warren, threatening to cast a shadow over her presidential announcement.
Minutes before her announcement, Trump's 202 campaign tagged Warren as a fraud.
"Elizabeth Warren has already been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected," campaign manager Brad Parscale said in a statement. "The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America's middle-class. Only under President Trump's leadership will America continue to grow safer, secure and more prosperous."
Fox News' Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.
Trump Campaign Knocks ‘Fraud’ Elizabeth Warren Upon 2020 Announcement
President Donald Trump’s 2020 campaign manager predicted Americans will reject the “dishonest campaign and socialist ideas” of Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who announced her 2020 bid Saturday. “Elizabeth Warren has already been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected,” said Trump for President 2020 campaign manager Brad Parscale in response to Warren’s 2020 announcement Saturday.
This week Warren battled against newly surfaced evidence of her claiming Native American heritage. Where her 1986 State Bar of Texas card identifies race, the words “American Indian” were hand-written. 
When probed by reporters about more documents this week, she alluded to the possibility that there were more in existence on which she claimed she is Native American. In a statement she focused on having created “confusion” over “tribal sovereignty and tribal citizenship” and her apology for that.
Warren announced Saturday that she is making a run for president of the United States in the 2020 election – this despite repeated evidence that she claimed Native American heritage that is not backed up in a test of her DNA that she revealed last October. The results of that test showed only between 1/2024 and 1/64 share of common DNA with residents of Colombia, Peru, and Mexico. 
“The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle class,” Parscale predicted Saturday. “Only under President Trump’s leadership will America continue to grow safer, secure and more prosperous.”
Michelle Moons is a White House Correspondent for Breitbart News — follow on Twitter @MichelleDiana and Facebook
Elizabeth Warren: ‘Race Matters, and We Need to Say So’
”
It was a stunning statement of personal hypocrisy from the politician who, 33 years earlier, falsely claimed on her 1986 Texas Bar registration card that her race was American Indian.
The Donald J. Trump for President campaign quickly knocked that hanging curveball out of the park.
“Elizabeth Warren has already been exposed as a fraud by the Native Americans she impersonated and disrespected to advance her professional career, and the people of Massachusetts she deceived to get elected,” Brad Parscale, campaign manager for the Donald J. Trump for President 2020 reelection campaign, said in a statement minutes after Warren made her announcement.
“The American people will reject her dishonest campaign and socialist ideas like the Green New Deal, that will raise taxes, kill jobs and crush America’s middle-class. Only under President Trump’s leadership will America continue to grow safer, secure and more prosperous,” Parscale added.
Beginning in 1986 and continuing for 18 years until 2004, Warren continued to falsely claim her race was “American Indian,” “Native American,” and “minority” in legally significant documents, as Breitbart News reported:
At no time during this 18-year period did Warren present a single piece of documentation or genetic evidence to support her false claim of Native American heritage. Nor, apparently, did any of the institutions that accepted her claims demand any evidence to support those claims.
The timeline of Warren’s false claims of Native American heritage on legally significant documents begins in 1986, the year she signed her Texas Bar registration card and declared her race to be American Indian. 1986 was the same year she claimed to be a minority in the 1986-1987 Association of American Law Schools directory of faculty, which was used at the time by most law schools as a recruiting guide for potential new faculty members.
At the time, Warren was on the faculty of the University of Texas Law School where her husband Bruce Mann was also on the faculty and considered a rising law school star.
In 1989, two years after she was hired by the University of Pennsylvania Law School as a trailing spouse to Mann, who was hired by the University of Pennsylvania Law School at the same time, Warren declared herself to be  Native American in a University of Pennsylvania personnel document.
Warren allegedly continued to self-identify as Native American in legally significant documents until 2004.
“Several months after Warren started working at Harvard Law School in late 1995, Harvard recorded her ethnicity as Native American, according to university records reported by the [Boston] Globe. The records include a memo showing that Warren signed off on the change,” the Washington Post reported on Thursday.
“Harvard continued reporting Warren as a Native American until 2004, the records show. Warren has never explained what happened that year to prompt the change,” the Post noted.
 
This article was sourced from Foxnews
This article was sourced from Breitbart
Remember me
