aside How Did President Trump Become So Fixated On The Concept Of A Wall On The US Southern Border
As early as 2014, the republican President Donald Trump and his advisers had come up with the concept of his US southern wall to sell his anti-immigration message.  His getting tough on immigration, was to become his signature issue at the start of his presidential campaign.
They had astutely figured out that his stand against immigration would sell well to lots of Americans who were looking for a bogeyman to blame for the lack of their economic security.
Even today, it is the anti-immigration faction of his base that he continues to cater to, even though they comprise only about 25% of the American population which equals about 35% of the current Republican Party. He needs to be viewed from the perspective of his base that he is fighting hard to build this wall. IT IS A CAMPAIGN STUNT.
I know that the president’s touting of the immigration crisis at the border is a made-up scenario because during the years of 2014-2015, migrant refugees seeking asylum at the US southwestern border were at much higher numbers than those of today. But under the Democratic Party President Barack Obama’s administration, little was heard about a crisis at the border. At no time, did President Obama order active military personnel to be deployed to the southern border. At no time, did he ever consider declaring an emergency situation. At no point, did he threaten to order a US government shutdown where hard working public servants would have their pay held, over this issue.
The president has done virtually nothing of substance to lift up those hard working folks who voted for him. All they’ve gotten is a lot of empty promises. However, he has continued to work hard to keep his anti-immigration base in tact. This is his power base. Without them, he has nothing.
It is no coincidence that the Republican Party has been seen as a safe haven for racists and antisemitic citizens as they also tend to be anti-immigration zealots.
I have often wondered if the wealthy GOP conservative donors have been supporting him and his anti-immigration ugly rhetoric, while they manage to get their wish list enacted like a major 2017 tax cuts bill, deregulation measures and the placement of conservative justices in the federal court system.
The rest of us, can eat the cake crumbs. Here’s the rest of the story…
On January 5, 2019, Julie Hirshfeld Davis and Peter Baker of the New York Times penned the following report, “The Border Wall: How a Potent Symbol Is Now Boxing Trump In”
Excerpts:
“Before it became the chief sticking point in a government shutdown drama that threatens to consume his presidency at a critical moment, President Trump’s promise to build a wall on the southwestern border was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate.”
“As Mr. Trump began exploring a presidential run in 2014, his political advisers landed on the idea of a border wall as a mnemonic device of sorts, a way to make sure their candidate — who hated reading from a script but loved boasting about himself and his talents as a builder — would remember to talk about getting tough on immigration, which was to be a signature issue in his nascent campaign.”
“How do we get him to continue to talk about immigration?” Sam Nunberg, one of Mr. Trump’s early political advisers, recalled telling Roger J. Stone Jr., another adviser. “We’re going to get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.”
“Talk Mr. Trump did, and the line drew rapturous cheers from conservative audiences, thrilling the candidate and soon becoming a staple of campaign speeches. Chants of “Build the wall!” echoed through arenas throughout the country.”
“Now, Mr. Trump’s fixation with a border wall — the material embodiment of his keep-them-out immigration agenda — has run headlong into the new realities of divided government, pitting him against Democrats who reject the idea out of hand. The impasse is particularly remarkable given that even some immigration hard-liners do not regard the wall as their highest priority and fear that Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with it will prompt him to cut a deal that trades a relatively ineffectual measure for major concessions on immigration.”
“I’ve always thought it created a danger that he would trade almost anything in order to get the wall — I think that’s still a potential danger,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that argues for less immigration. “I’m still worried about that now.”
“That fear has been realized at times when Mr. Trump has explored a deal with Democrats on granting permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the US as children, known as Dreamers. The president has always walked away at the last moment from committing to preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, but on Friday, FAIR, an anti-immigration group, warned him again that it would be a mistake.”
“To many conservative activists who have pressed for decades for sharp reductions in both illegal and legal immigration — and some of the Republican lawmakers who are allied with them — a physical barrier on the border with Mexico is barely relevant, little more than a footnote to a long list of policy changes they believe are needed to fix a broken system.”
“The disconnect is at the heart of the dilemma facing Mr. Trump as he labors to find a way out of an impasse that has shuttered large parts of the government and cost 800,000 federal employees their pay. Having spent more than four years — first as a candidate and then as president — whipping his core supporters into a frenzy over the idea of building a border wall, Mr. Trump finds himself in a political box of his own making.”
“In transforming the wall into a powerful emblem of his anti-immigration message, Mr. Trump has made the proposal politically untouchable for Democrats, who have steadfastly refused to fund it, complicating the chances of any compromise.”
An Outsize Symbol
“The dynamic has been on vivid display this past week as Mr. Trump has argued that there can be no deal to reopen the government unless his wall is paid for, while Democrats, now in control of the House, have refused in ever sharper terms.”
“A wall is an immorality — it’s not who we are as a nation,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. “This is a wall between reality and his constituents, his supporters.”
“Last month, in private comments to Democratic lawmakers after an Oval Office confrontation with Mr. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said the wall was “like a manhood thing for him.”
“Yet it has also become an outsize symbol in the other direction for Democrats, many of whom supported at least some sort of barrier along the border in the past but now cast Mr. Trump’s wall as a travesty.  Sixty-four Democrats  in the House and  26 in the Senate  voted in 2006 for the Secure Fence Act, which provided for hundreds of miles of fencing along the border. Among them were Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Chuck Schumer.”
“Beyond the symbolism, Democrats now argue that a wall is an expensive and ineffective means of curbing illegal immigration. The majority of undocumented immigrants are people who overstay visas, not people who sneak across the border. A report released in March by Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security Committee found that Border Patrol agents on the front lines  said  they needed more technology and additional personnel to curb illegal immigration and drug traffic, with less than one half of one percent mentioning a wall.”
“While most Republicans refuse to say so publicly for fear of angering Mr. Trump, many share the view that the wall is only a piece — and nowhere near the most important one — of a broader set of actions needed to overhaul the immigration system, including cuts to legal immigration, tighter standards for granting asylum and better enforcement.”
“Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trump’s acting chief of staff, gave voice to that position in 2015, when he was a congressman from South Carolina, telling a local radio station that Mr. Trump, at the time a presidential candidate, had an overly simplistic view of tackling immigration.”
“The fence is an easy thing to sell politically,” Mr. Mulvaney said then. “It’s an easy thing for someone who doesn’t follow the issue very closely to say, ‘Oh, well, that will just solve everything, build the fence.’ The fence doesn’t solve the problem.”
 Link to entire report:  The Border Wall: How a Potent Symbol Is Now Boxing Trump In
Share this:
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Respect Award
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,003 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
