3:00 PM 02/08/2019 | Opinion
Message
Send
WhatsApp
Bernie Sanders is lying about Trump, and he’s desperate to stay relevant in an unhinged Democratic Party.
In another desperate attempt to remain relevant, Bernie Sanders accused President Trump of delivering a “racist” and divisive State of the Union Address. Problem is, the only divisive rhetoric of the night came from the Democrats.
Trump conveyed a passionate message of bipartisanship and unity, urging Democrats and Republicans to negotiate and compromise on issues that matter to all Americans.
“The agenda I will lay out this evening is not a Republican agenda or Democrat agenda, it is the agenda of the American people,” he  said . “There is a new opportunity in American politics, if only we have the courage together to seize it.”
The president maintained his conciliatory tone throughout the address, opting to emphasize opportunities for bipartisan cooperation rather than attack the Democrats for obstructing his policies over the past two years.
“Together we can break decades of political stalemate,” he argued. “We can bridge all divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions, and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future.”
Predictably, the Democrats proved to be hostile to Trump’s call for unity and bipartisanship. Immediately following the official Democrat response to the president’s State of the Union address, Sanders delivered a response of his own in which he  slammed  Donald Trump, accusing the president of trying to turn Americans against each other with “racist” rhetoric.
“He is trying to divide us up,” Sanders said. “He is trying to have one group turn against another group, and that is certainly not what this country is supposed to be about.”
There’s no way around this, it’s clear to anyone who watched Trump’s speech that Bernie Sanders is lying.
Sanders also failed to notice the irony of his attacks on Trump, which closely mirrored the criticism leveled against Sanders by some critics for  upstaging a black woman  with his unofficial response to the State of the Union. Sanders was railing about racism and divisiveness in a speech that many Democrats felt was itself racist and divisive.
Comrade Sanders did, however, remain true to the Democrats’ obstructionist political strategy, echoing the hostile rhetoric employed by Stacey Abrams, who delivered the official Democrat response to the State of the Union address.
“Making livelihoods of our federal workers a pawn for political games is a disgrace,” Abrams  argued , adding that the recent partial government shutdown “was a stunt, engineered by the President of the United States.”
The only acceptable form of bipartisanship, Abrams seemed to suggest, is for Trump and congressional Republicans to simply abandon their principles and embrace the full progressive policy agenda.
The Democrats are determined to persuade the American people that President Trump’s State of the Union address was divisive and racist — but the president was the model of comity and respect, while the Democrats delivered a full measure of hypocrisy. It’s the party of Trump derangement, I wish I could say I’m surprised.
Harlan Hill is president of the Logan Circle Group and an advisory board member for the Trump-Pence 2020 re-election campaign.
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.
Search
Trending
