Menu
Executive Carnage; President Trump Is Fucking With You, Everyone And Fucking Himself
It would be an understatement to say that
Figurehead
President Trump has had a quite prolific week and that he has taken his reputation as a cutthroat landlord, contract squelching developer, and petty litigious dickface to the White House. But in this humble and bitter curmudgeon’s opinion and fellow resident from Queens, it can’t be anymore apparent than the look on that formerly orange and now Spalding Handball hued face of his.
It all started with the lying about the inauguration attendance and the emergency press conference to perpetuate and promote the lie while millions of ladies around the world organized solidarity marches to remind the world of his repulsive sexual advances and sexist shit talking, thus leading to the major network coverage diversion of news interest. An attempt to shut down social media capabilities at the Dept. of Interior backfired for the National Parks debunked the Trump’s proxy Spicer tantrum with their Twitter publication of Obama’s turnout. Which subsequently led to Trump’s chief counsel and continuing campaign manager Kellyanne Conway’s defense by adding the creative adage “alternative facts” to the nation’s intellectual diminishing lexicon.
But President Trump doesn’t give a fuck what you think, what you saw or even what the facts are
He went to CIA headquarters to address the agents and regaled them with his delusions about the crowd size and the news media he declared war on at the previous press conference. The speech was filled with President Trump’s natural proclivity for repetitive usage of positive adjectives (great, tremendous, you all know them) and was peppered with strange uproarious laughter from the agency’s memorial room as the President spoke. Reportedly, it was coming from staffers Trump bought in. Also reportedly, the CIA agents there, who are trained to kill with their bare hands, were spooked and unnerved by the President’s speech to them.
But President Trump doesn’t give a fuck.
Then came the executive orders, which were clearly written hurriedly and haphazardly without thought to reactions and consequences and to compliment the attention span of the renegade commander-in-chief. Influenced by those great generous minds at the Heritage Foundation.
The Affordable Care Act went first of course, which isn’t that objectionable because of the high deductable that makes it practically useless and universal health care would be cheaper. Still, this decision is going to give a lot of people on the plan anxiety, it might lead citizens to rush to join a plan that might be detrimental in the long run, and may discourage new customers from signing one, which may be the intent.
Then for some reason, there was an EO to enact fees on homeowners, which shouldn’t be shocking coming from this President and other multiple home owning elected and appointed officials who harp about the estate tax. This was a cut by President Obama, although in retrospect meager, to give homeowners some relief especially after the 2008 crashing of the economy by scumbag banks and predatory lenders.
After these two sadistic but mostly symbolic decisions, he found time to bitch and moan about the crowd size of the people at the inauguration. But that diversion bore some fruit because he went and signed an EO to track down on voter fraud. For he thinks that the 3 million who voted for Manifest Failure Hillary should have went to him, even the dead ones who registered and voted, presumably from the netherworld counties of these states and a glut of voters who are registered in 2 states. Contradicting his prior claim about if he bothered to campaign in the blue states he would have won them. Trump’s peculiar knowledge of the latter theory is ironic for the fact that his top advisors and family members are also registered in two states. Maybe the President is relying more on experience than misinterpreting a poll.
But the man doesn’t give a fuck what you all think and what you heard.
Then there were a flurry of EO’s that focused on trade and government bureaucracy. TPP was never ratified for this to mean anything and it’s despised in other nations (like New Zealand),  this was just a sentimental token signing. The federal hiring freeze sounds good to taxpayers, but the people that have these jobs most likely are middle class. So much for our President’s concern for the forgotten. Those pesky federal regulation guidelines got the symbolic axe from the President’s giant signature, so there will not be any impediments for cheap oligarchs from getting obese wealth at the expense of the safety of their employees and residents who live near their power plants or pipelines.
Speaking of pipelines, there is the utter moronic decision to revive the construction of the potentially disastrous Keystone XL and the government sanctioned plundering of the Dakota Access pipelines. Keystone is a massive risk to the environment and may be ultimately unprofitable and the Dakota pipeline has been rife with chaos due to the resistance of the Native American tribes to protect their only source of clean water and sacred burial grounds in the face of sadistic and quasi-legal oppression of the protests by using tactics like siccing dogs, shotgunning tear gas bombs and using firehoses in freezing weather. It should be noted that our President has a financial stake in the destructive Dakota access venture.
But we all know the President doesn’t give a fuck about emoluments.
As if there is any wonder if
Figurehead
President Trump is his own man and not one to owe some other people, say a foreign leader a favor for his recent and first real job, there is the EO and part theological edict of the “Global Gag” rule. Which basically defunds health programs by including or even mentioning the word abortion and expands to contraception use across the nation and the world, which can’t be more of a generous sop to Mike Pence and the GOP establishment religious ideologues that helped secure Trump’s nomination to the party. So much for fears of the President being compromised and allegory comparisons to Sharia Law. There is also the decision to end the funding of sanctuary cities, which is understandable considering how it’s being exploited in New York for example, but there would not be a need for them if other states weren’t so rigid and did their fair share taking care of their own poverty situations instead of forcing people out to more populous and denser regions.
These executive decisions would be intimidating except for the underwhelming fact that they are mostly symbolic and were reportedly filled with vague and conflicting language and not even confirmed by a key judicial branch. Which may have led to the devastating blowback to Trump’s most ardent supporters and immigrants who have a right to be in this country over the weekend.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This interview had some other ostentatious displays of self-aggrandizement and prideful cognitive dissonance. Notably when the President was showing a expansive photo of his inauguration and his perceived millions that were there like when the dictator in the In-Laws was showing off his art collection and when he was dressing down the interviewer, David Muir, to his face by bringing up how Fox News
depicts
reports about him and how he derives his opinions on the news medias reporting on him by watching himself on television akin to Peter Sellers character in Being There. ( Even Rush Limbaugh gets it, although wrong as usual )
 
 
 
 
 
Steve Bannon
And now we come to the Big Kahuna of executive orders. The temporary immigration ban on Muslim majority nations that are hotbeds of terrorism attacks and have ties to funding of terrorist groups, notably a permanent ban on people from Syria. With the exception of Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and The United Arab Emirates, nations that have actual ties to the Taliban, Al Qaeda and Isis and with the exception of Pakistan, palatial hotels and golf courses with the Trump Brand. Unlike the other orders, the actions demanded on the order happen on day one and on the weekend when plane traveling is highest. Hundreds of immigrants with legal work visas and green cards, people that were already vetted by this nation (though not extremely) were detained by the TSA officers and officials. Which led to protests to all of the cities major airports and apparently preemptive action by civil rights lawyers and elected officials to strike down the unconstitutionality of Trump’s arbitrary and draconian action. It has led to the invocation of habeas corpus in the acquittal of 2 immigrants at JFK and the Trump administrations lifting of the ban and the release of all those detained mercilessly.
This has led to the sudden action and awakening of elected officials in congress, after years of mutual complacency and toleration of Obama’s unconstitutional executive decisions and policies ,  to boycott confirmation hearings of the attorney general. Trump may have possibly ruined Jeff Sessions chance to enforce the laws of the nation. Especially after the firing of the temporary AG Sally Yates for refusing to enforce his selective religious ban. Notably, in a sick Machiavellian twist, Sessions asked during Yates’ confirmation a few years ago if she would resist if she felt if the president went above the law. I guess that was only for the last guy.
But in spite of the widespread resistance from the masses and electeds, the dropping poll numbers and the embarrassing results from the EO hastily closing the borders to this nation, Trump still doesn’t give a fuck. His conviction that the world is a mess justifies his decisions. What does it matter when people who went through the proper channels to live and work here get caught up in the anti-terror ringer? According to the President, the nation and the world is a mess and has bigger problems to solve, even though none of the nations on the Muslim ban has even attacked our country, and two of them are known allies where our military are training those nations’ armies, Somalia and Iraq.
This may be just a shock doctrine test to see how the nation’s laws and judges react to this mess that he created. President Trump wants to rule by chaos and disorder and it doesn’t matter what those on the street with the funny signs or what the democrat minority in the houses in DC say.
President Trump is just fucking with people. Plain and simple. It’s what power tripping, unscrupulous bosses have always done since the dawn of man. He is the boss of America and he decides who profits and and who gets to live here.
 
 
 
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Search for:
Blog Stats
8,120 hits
Recent Posts
Top Posts & Pages
%d bloggers like this:
