 Home  /  World News  / Elizabeth Warren for PRESIDENT: Trump MOCKS 'Pocahontas' 2020 runner – but who is she?
Elizabeth Warren for PRESIDENT: Trump MOCKS 'Pocahontas' 2020 runner – but who is she?
Senator Elizabeth Warren has announced she was running to rival President Donald Trump in the 2020 US elections. She spoke at a rally outside a mill in Lawrence, Massachusetts to officially announce she was a Democratic nomination for president. Ms Warren pledged to undo the “terrible” acts of the Trump administration, stating she would fight all the way to do so. But following her speech, the President poked fun at the senator, calling her “Pocahontas”.
President Trump wrote: “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President.
“Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!”
Who is Elizabeth Warren?
Elizabeth Warren is currently serving as the senior US Senator for Massachusetts and has done since 2013.
Born and raised in Oklahoma, the 69-year-old is a graduate of the University of Houston and Rutgers Law School.
Before being Senator, she specialised in bankruptcy law and was a prominent scholar.
Read More: Obama’s shock presidential intervention: Barack has eyes on 2020 race
Ms Warren’s crossover into politics began with her opposing what turned into a 2005 act limiting bankruptcy access for individuals.
Her profile started to rise in the late 2000s for her commanding attitudes in favour of more rigorous regulations in response to the 2007–2008 financial crisis.
She worked as chair of the Congressional Oversight Panel of the Troubled Asset Relief Program and was key in the conception of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), for which she served as the first Special Advisor.
Unable to overcome Republican opposition to become the Director of the CFPB, Warren instead challenged and defeated Republican incumbent Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts in 2012.
She was the keynote speaker at the 2016 Democratic National Convention and became Vice Chair of the Senate Democratic Caucus the next year.
A well-known liberal leader, Warren has concentrated on consumer protection, economic opportunity, and the social safety net while in the Senate.
Following her re-election to the Senate in the 2018 midterm elections, Warren announced the creation of an exploratory committee for her campaign in the 2020 presidential election.
One aspect of President Trump’s policies that Ms W​arren has remained fiercely critical of, is their immigration policy.
In particular the separation of migrant children from their families at the border.
Ms Warren said in an interview with CNN in the summer of 2018: “I think we need immigration laws that focus on people who pose a real threat and I don’t think moms and babies are the place that we should be spending our resources.
“Separating a momma from a baby does not make this country safer​.”
Announcing her intentions to run in the 2020 elections on February 9, she said: “The man in the White House is not the cause of what’s broken, he’s just the latest — and most extreme — symptom of what’s gone wrong in America.
“It won’t be enough to just undo the terrible acts of this administration.
“We can’t afford to just tinker around the edges — a tax credit here, a regulation there. Our fight is for big, structural change.
“This is the fight of our lives. The fight to build an America where dreams are possible, an America that works for everyone.
“I am in that fight all the way. And that is why I stand here today: to declare that I am a candidate for President of the United States of America.”
Let’s block ads! (Why?)
Similar Posts:
by Express.co.uk 18 Aug 2017
