Sun 10 Feb 2019 02.00 EST
An Ivanka Trump look-alike vacuums up crumbs thrown by visitors as part of Jennifer Rubell’s installation. Photograph: Win McNamee/Getty Images
In a singular achievement for US conceptual art, an installation by Jennifer Rubell has prompted three – to date – of Donald Trump’s children to disclose their horror of sexism.
The piece in question , Ivanka Vacuuming, recently opened in Washington DC. A video shows a woman in the Trump-preferred genre – young, high-heeled, blond – impassively pushing a vacuum cleaner around a pink carpet, on to which visitors are invited to throw crumbs, from a generous pile on a pedestal. “Inspired by a figure whose public persona incorporates an almost comically wide range of feminine identities – daughter, wife, mother, sister, model, working woman, blond– Ivanka Vacuuming is,” say the organisers, CulturalDC, “simultaneously a visual celebration of a contemporary icon; a portrait of our own relationship to that figure; and a questioning of our complicity in her role playing.”
One viewer might see it as a satirical commentary on Ivanka’s claim to speak for all working women
The piece is open, the gallery says, to “contradictory interpretations”. For instance, while one viewer might see it as a satirical commentary on Ivanka’s claim to speak for all working women (she has never, it is believed, touched a vacuum cleaner) and others might detect a pretty metaphor for Ivanka’s role in the Trump administration (as the endlessly tolerant cleaner-up of Trumpian detritus), her brothers seem to have perceived it more like an honour crime.
Donald Trump Jr , who, like all Trump children, owes everything he has to a serial grabber of pussies, tweeted: “Sad, but not surprising to watch self professed ‘feminists’ launching sexist attacks against @IvankaTrump. In their crazed world, sexism is OK if [it] hurts their political enemies.”
His brother Eric further vindicated Rubell’s choice of appliance, household task and mess: unremarkable elsewhere but, probably for that very reason, abnormal enough in the Trumpian world to cause outrage. Appearing on Fox News, Eric seemed to suspect the determination of hypocritical “leftists” to mock “a powerful woman who has done more for women than probably anybody in Washington DC”. The deliberate use of crumbs near the powerful woman further indicated the involvement of leftards, covertly disseminating their message through Washington art installations that insinuate that a Trump might occasionally have to do without hired help.
“They label themselves as a party of women,” said Eric, “yet they are throwing food, they are throwing garbage, at a woman on a carpet holding a vacuum cleaner to mimic somebody who really does care, and has fought so hard for women.”
For Ivanka, too, the vacuum-holding/crumbs insult appears to be have been significantly more unendurable than previous female-authored criticism – or harsh reviews or rumours of misconduct – to which she has not responded. For instance, a book called Golden Handcuffs: The Secret History of Trump’s Women , by Nina Burleigh, on the willed subjection of Trump’s matching set of women, recently came and went without tweeted objections from Trump or her siblings.
Ivanka is probably destined to knock down more members of her own sex than her less influential brothers
Rubell, alone, has been rewarded with a chilly public reminder from Ivanka on appropriate female conduct and, by implication, respectful female iconography. Next time, maybe, Rubell might want to think about portraying Ivanka, known for her Jackiesque styling, with something more obviously Camelot: a must-have Ivanka bracelet , say, or a blond toddler or a horribly grinning pussy-grabber.
“Women can choose to knock each other down or build each other up,” Ivanka tweeted, with a dignified phrasing reminiscent, deliberately or not, of Bartleby the Scrivener : “I choose the latter.”
Like Madeleine Albright , with her “special place in hell for women who don’t help each other”, Ivanka’s reputation as a builder-upper has long, it’s true, drawn on a kind of haute-feminism that is more about inspiration and support networks than securing women’s rights. Given her role as lead sanitiser of a president committed to reversing women’s rights, Ivanka is probably destined to knock down more members of her own sex than her less influential brothers.
But it’s Ivanka, a supporter of Brent Kavanaugh and someone who has recently been campaigning for the abortion-denying Iowan governor, Kim Reynolds, who sat on the platform of the 2017 G20 women’s summit and identified herself, in contrast to Angela Merkel, as a feminist.
That word does not, however, seem to feature anywhere in her book Women Who Work, a guide to acting more like Ivanka , where “I’ve curated my best thinking”.
“Partner with the right person” is one best thought from Donald’s daughter. And another: “See the value of self-care”. And, it follows, the unvalue of vacuuming. “Tempted to clean your house instead of taking an exercise class?” she asks fellow workers. “Consider whether you’d ask your child/spouse/client/best friend to do that instead.”
What remains unexplained is how, given the sometimes striking contrast between Ivanka’s best thinking and her day job, officiating for a predatory philanderer and misogynist, not forgetting her participation in some questionable property projects, her reputation has survived, to a degree that makes a pale-pink vacuuming installation look objectionably hard-hitting. “ What is it about [Ivanka] that handcuffs writers and throws them off?” ” asked a US journalist, quoted beneath the headline “The Queen of Spin”.
It probably helps that the Albright/Ivanka understanding of feminism, whereby the latter merits unstinting support, does resonate beyond the immediate family and, indeed, the US right. Versions of Albright’s precept are still endorsed, sometimes reflexively or rashly – I confess to historical defences of Theresa May – and sometimes (when women are averse to supporting some no less female nightmare) derisively, by misogynists, with the optional addition of “Isn’t this what you wanted?”
The Albright principle doesn’t just demand, absurdly, that all women commit to building up, regardless of their differences, Ivanka, and parody Ivanka, and Jennifer Rubell, it concludes in lectures on feminism from men such as Eric and Donald Trump Jr.
Abhor Rubell’s depiction of Ivanka with a vacuum cleaner or you’re basically, we learn from these unlikely hammers of sexism, no better than their own father.
Topics
Close
