In an effort to keep the Daily Open Thread a little more open topic we are going to start a new daily thread for “Presidential Politics”. Please use this thread to post anything relating to the Donald Trump Administration and Presidency.
This thread will refresh daily and appear above the Open Discussion Thread.
Advertisements
This statement has officially jumped the shark- Justin is "aggressively exploring options" for an "independent and impartial investigation".  How can it be independent if the person being accused is selecting it?! https://t.co/TNKtwOOLjT
No one in Congress is capable of either leading us, or, representing us.
– Both Parties weed out leadership long before any candidate gets on a Congressional ballot.
– Their bills and votes represent the influence of lobbyists who write the legislation.
About half of us citizens now have representation – it is in the Executive branch.
Quite a limb we find ourselves on.
Wow, that’s the best example I ever saw of a politician trying to “connect with the people”.
I hope the little guy kicked Sen. Warren before he went home.
A Woman of Action!
http://www.msn.com/ with link to Hollywood Reporter article
Trump supporter and recording artist @RickyRebelRocks shows off a reversible Trump “keep America great” jacket. Remember @Joy_Villa ’s #GRAMMYs Trump dress? Same designer. pic.twitter.com/jFEQ4zU1Sb
I also just read that Namcy Pelosi is
There as well. SMH
Entertainment Tonight has problems with Making America Great Again
Imagine using the embarrassed emoji in response to people wanting to improve the country they live in—instead of improving some country our politicians bomb, rebuild, and then bomb again to get rich. https://t.co/WAmKLMZIMz
Great idea!
Which is why we are doing a #BLEXIT rally in Richmond, Virginia on March 3rd…
Full details and formal announcement coming tomorrow.
Stephen Miller: "If you want to stop the horrors on the northward trek, the rape that occurs, the abuse that occurs, and the death that occurs, then for the love of God fund the Border Wall!"
It’s now or never @POTUS , use the military, Build the Wall! pic.twitter.com/lhSpxlb8rD
Relaxing, monotonous video of miles  and miles of new fencing replacing the worthless vehicle barriers from before.  Just lovely.
(No, not as high as we want but so much better and the best President Trump can get out of Ryan’s RINO congress and the current Dem congress)
There is a part 2 to this video and it is just as lovely and shows examples of the vehicle barriers.
dhs.gov/news/2018/12/12/walls-work
This is a GREAT video that I have somehow missed.
This video shows Huge “fencing” replacing normal size (4′ high, it looks like to me) barbed wire fencing and the so called “vehicle barriers”.
Love it!  (no not the best that we wanted but SO much better than what we had before and remember that we would have had no improvements with out President Trump!)
A sure sign of winning. Pew poll shows global concern that America is back on top!
“The largest shift in sentiment centered on the United States, it said, with a median of 45 percent of people naming U.S. power and influence as a threat in 2018, up from 25 percent in 2013, when Barack Obama was U.S. president.
In 10 countries, including Germany, Japan and South Korea, roughly half of respondents or more saw U.S. power and influence as a major threat to their nation, up from eight in 2017 and three in 2013, the poll showed.
In Mexico, where those concerns have spiked since the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, the percentage jumped to 64 percent, the poll showed.”
Tim Pool has a very informative video on what happened with the Green New Deal rollout bungle. The details aren’t so important (upshot: they lied after realizing America was freaking out.) But here’s a profoundly important distinction that he covers:
From (9:20 – 11:30) he illustrates EXACTLY what these Commies mean by “equity” vs “equality”. Really astounding!!
PT will undoubtedly be painting some very colorful verbal images for what the Democrats have foolishly signed onto!
His explanation of Equity vs. Equality, to me, basically sounds like an euphemistic way of rephrasing Karl Marx: “From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs“.
Maybe he also explains that, I only listened to about 1 minute from that 09:20 mark.
But that’s what they are pushing – Karl Marx.
Ofc, we here pretty much all know that (that they are pushing communism). Hopefully it will sink in to some of those not yet realizing it.
lol
I will say that there is really no embarrassment for Democrats/Socialists. If they don’t get removed – they don’t care.
I am seeing more and more articles and postings about people being upset about 2018 tax returns.  many are saying that they paid more and just as many are complaining about not receiving as much back.
those not receiving as much back in this year’s return may just means that they didn’t over pay in their taxes all year v. actually paid more in taxes.
Also, each person that paid more – are they in a high tax state and are not seeing an increase in taxes but a decrease in the deductions because they now can’t deduct local taxes and therefore their tax bill went up?
Lastly, we need to see the same amount of coverage about people paying less in taxes in 2018 than in 2017.  If we don’t the leftist will win the messaging war on the tax cuts despite the facts.
Yes, and I think this is fake news to an extreme.  The “journalist” should feel compelled to explain that your tax refund has nothing to do with how much tax you paid.  It is just an indication of how accurate your withholding was.
But, that aside, I just filed, and I’m receiving a larger refund than last year, even though my withholding was adjusted to the new rates, so I actually had less tax withheld.
And the people in high tax states, aren’t affected unless they make quite a bit of money, because the deductions are phased out with higher incomes.  Those people normally understand taxes pretty well.
So I’m left thinking the MSM is scouring the bushes looking for aggrieved taxpayers, or just making it up as usual.
OUR representatives are negating our vote and voice.
They don’t care what we think because they are not worried about us responding
And they don’t care about our vote because that’s not how they get elected.
They do not care at all about our best dying in war, just less deplorables.
Broken lives, families, homes and hearts.  For what?
FYI, do have the gun loaded if need be.
“On the afternoon of Sunday, May 25, 1986, almost seven million people joined hands to form a line that stretched 4,152 miles (6,682 km) – from New York City’s Battery Park to the RMS Queen Mary pier in Long Beach, California. This nationwide event, called Hands Across America, was intended to raise money to fight hunger and homelessness.”
From the album “Hands Across America”. (C) 1986 EMI America Records, a division of Capitol Records, Inc.
Maybe if we could all just forgive one another and start right now to really make it our goal to love one another as Christ has loved us. He died for every single person ever born — gave His blood to cleanse each and every one of us from our sins. He loves us and doesn’t want any of us to perish — not any of us. God help us to join together under You.
Glad you liked.  I was feeling sassy.
I am a Christain and I do forgive, but that has zero to do with politics or my political positions. I Won’t have my religion or spiritual beliefs used in a twisted way against me or to manipulate me.
Agree. Same here.
everyone deserves forgiveness    But I think they first have to realize they need it.
Regardless,it seemed off topic and I thought it satire at first
But I’m not willing to capitulate.
While his intentions are good, I won’t be this person:
The War of the Worlds – scene with the preacher (2m 45s)
The Donors are lying to you @realDonaldTrump .
We don’t need Mass Legal Immigration.
Let’s start putting our American Workers first and start reducing legal immigration. https://t.co/TNJJj1rTVd
Ending ALL Legal immigration? UGH.
New Legal Immigrants are one of the *best* things about this country, and always has been, IMO.
If there’s a reason to reduce numbers, go for it. But END it for 40 years? No.Way.
The time has come to demand Dem leaders speak out against @ilhanmn for her vile antisemitism. This isn’t going away. Where is @nancypelosi @SenSchumer @RepJerryNadler @RepEliotEngel @RepAdamSchiff @DWStweets and DNC leadership? Have they lost their ears, eyes, or damned minds? pic.twitter.com/mRhtDMJSJC
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Advertisements
RT @ i24NEWS_EN : The latest #NYT report on Trump shows the newspaper now operates as the Comey and McCabe arm of the #Russiagate narrative,… 14 hours ago
I would love to know what's behind these FISC Court footnote redactions. https://t.co/fmsvcCPVaM 14 hours ago
George Zimmerman Case Research
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 128,494 other followers
Our Tree House
Our Mission Statement
Research and Analysis
Blog Of The Year
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
