Don't Let the Trump EPA Leave Workers Unprotected
Kevin Hartley was only 21 years old when tragically he passed away after being overcome by chemical fumes while refinishing a bathtub on the job in Nashville, Tennessee. The cause of his death was acute exposure to methylene chloride — a highly toxic chemical that can be lethal and has been linked to dozens of deaths across the country for decades.
Unfortunately, after a two-year delay, the Trump EPA is now signaling that it will move forward a  ban on such paint strippers that is significantly weakened from the one originally proposed. It appears to exempt commercial uses, despite the fact that the great majority of reported deaths from the use of these products have involved workers. Currently, the rule awaits finalization at the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
Take action today, and tell Congress: Don’t let another tragic death happen. Demand that EPA and OMB fix this mistake and ensure the ban protects all Americans.
Recipients
Message
It's time to protect consumers and workers from deadly paint strippers.
Dear [Decision Maker],
* Personalize your message
I am deeply concerned about EPA's decision to continue allowing deadly paint strippers in America's workplaces.   In January 2017, EPA proposed to ban methylene chloride-based paint and coating removal products for all consumer and most commercial uses. The proposal was based on years of study and public input through which the agency compiled overwhelming evidence of the dangers the chemical presents to workers and consumers when used in such products.   After putting off action for two years, the Trump EPA has sent a scaled-back draft final rule to the White House Office of Management and Budget that appears to limit the ban to consumer uses only. While a ban on consumer use is essential, given that the great majority of reported deaths from these products have been of workers, a ban that does not protect workers is unacceptable.   Kevin Hartley was just 21 years old when he was killed while using a methylene chloride-based paint stripper to refinish a bathtub for the small, Nashville painting company where he worked. He thought he had taken needed precautions. But it wasn't enough.   There's still a chance to fix EPA's mistake by ensuring that the final ban protects workers like Kevin Hartley. Please demand that EPA and OMB finalize a ban of all consumer and most commercial uses -- as originally proposed -- to ensure we get these deadly products out of America's homes and workplaces.
Sincerely,
 
2.
 
Yes, I would like to receive email updates from Environmental Defense Fund.
Back to top
