Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein said Trump ordered him to write the memo justifying James Comey's firing, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe writes
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein has said he did not plan to write the memo justifying former FBI Director James Comey's firing and was ordered to do it, ex-FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe writes in an upcoming book.
Rosenstein complained about having to write the document, which is now part of a probe into whether the president obstructed justice by ousting Comey, McCabe writes, according to The Guardian.
CNBC.com
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein did not choose to write the heavily scrutinized memo explaining former FBI Director James Comey's firing, but did it under order from President Donald Trump, an upcoming book says.
Behind closed doors, Rosenstein complained about having to create the document used to justify the former FBI chief's ouster in May 2017, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe writes, according to the Guardian . Trump's removal of Comey, which came during the bureau's probe into Russian efforts to influence the 2016 election and whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Kremlin, is part of a probe into whether the president obstructed justice.
show chapters
"He said it wasn't his idea. The president had ordered him to write the memo justifying the firing," McCabe wrote of remarks Rosenstein made at a May 2017 meeting, according to the Guardian.
The newspaper obtained a copy of the former FBI official's book, "The Threat: How the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump." The president has repeatedly slammed McCabe, who was fired from the FBI just before his retirement last year.
Trump has often raged about the Russia investigation and asserted that he did not collude with Russia or obstruct justice. He did so again in tweets Friday morning, calling the probe a "GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX."
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.
Data also provided by
