Enter amount (USD)
Trump White House Takes Down Native Americans Web Page from Website
Published January 20, 2017
WASHINGTON – Change is inevitable when a presidential administration occurs. Within hours of the presidential transition, the White House, now under the control of President Donald Trump, took down the Native Americans web page that was part of the Obama White House website for the past eight years.
Also gone from the Trump White House website are web pages on civil rights, people with disabilities and climate change.
New to the White House website is First Lady Melania Trump biography. It is normal to add the new First Lady’s biography to the White House website when a presidential transition occurs. What is not generally done though is promoting a First Lady’s product, as is now the case. The new web page mentions her  jewelry line sold on QVC.
“Melania is also a successful entrepreneur. In April 2010, Melania Trump launched her own jewelry collection, ‘Melania™ Timepieces & Jewelry,’ on QVC,” the Trump White House website reads.
Updated: After the media reported on Mrs. Trump’s jewelry line on QVC, it was removed by the White House.
Share this:
About The Author
105 Comments
Lori D 2 years ago
Very irresponsible reporting. This is normal. They are transitioning. Please do not report things just to get people upset. We are better than this.
Other news outlets are reporting on several pages that were taken down by the Trump White House. This is newsworthy because of priorities shown by new administration. If there is going to be a Native American web page, they could have put up “Under construction” page relating to Native Americans. We have reached out to the White House, but no official response.
Meliea Perakis 2 years ago
I don’t see it on Obama’s White House page either.
I think you should give them time to get in the White House before you send out such news to create more division in America.  Shame on you!
People Magazine and the Washington Post reported on others that were taken down. Native News Online reports on Native American, therefore it is proper to report on the Native American web page that was removed. The point is if Native Americans were high on the new administration’s list, there could have been something written about their intentions. We have been called the “forgotten Americans” often. Someone in the Trump administration needs to step up to acknowledge we exist. It is that simple.
Lena Toledo 2 years ago
Very true in close monitoring, yes I agree.
I am with Lori D on this. All the NEGATIVE NINNYING isn’t productive at all. Give positive a Chance.
Jake 2 years ago
Yup. Their NASCAR page should be up in a day or two.
Alex Standing Bear 2 years ago
Not irresponsible Reality of neo-Andrew Jackson Trump!
richard smith 2 years ago
no one is really surprised by this, are they? trump & co. will sell anything they can, although it is unlawful, and the republicans have & will continue to turn a blind eye. the only answer is to impeach him, for conflict(s) of interest(s) and the procedure of impeachment will happen, brought to you by the democrats,  but the outcome will not be favorable to the country: the republicans hold the majority in both houses. the only “hope” is that in the next mid-term election, the republican majority will become the minority. and hope is less than nothing without action.
INDIGENOUS ANGEL 2 years ago
Scared white men and they are ugly too!  Indigenous Angel is soaring with other Indigenous Angels.  We are ready to take this injustice on!
Looks like people are getting ahead of themselves– the new web pages will be forthcoming & the info on the new first lady looked more bio than business
Simona 2 years ago
The Obama White House Website is archived here in its entirety https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/nativeamericans
Kerri Jantzen 2 years ago
The only thing mentioned about her jewelry line is this:  Melania is also a successful entrepreneur. In April 2010, Melania Trump launched her own jewelry collection.  Please don’t add words of your own to make it look bad!!  I copied and pasted that quote!!  And why is it so very wrong to mention All of her accomplishments??
Nikki Torchia 2 years ago
The article used the same words you did.  Who’s reading into things?
Scarlet 2 years ago
They must have changed the QVC reference because it’s not there anymore. Now it simply references the jewelry line, not where to get it.
trish 2 years ago
Your country has elected a fascist  who will lose no time getting rid of anyone and anything that he dislikes He is an insecure buffoon, who wants respect more than anything but will never have it, so will become more and more authoritarian and despotic as he realises that even all the power he wields will not get him the respect of he craves. Those around him are toadies  and a deep part of him knows they are only around him for what they can get, so his mad road to the destruction of everyone who opposes -ie disrespects- him, will continue  . Hold on tight Americans, you are in for a bumpy ride.
Lena Toledo 2 years ago
A transitioning period is taking place.  It is only rational that all of the former administration’s webpages would be deleted and new ones designating under Trumps administration would be place for effective tooling.  A Jerry Ward was hired as Native American Liaison for Trump’s Native American Team as a start/starter.
Don’t try to minimize this clear message.
Barry 2 years ago
I teach high school math on the Navajo Nation. I am worried for the people here and their children. Unsure of how the new appointees will hold to the govt’s tribal obligations. Ready to stand with the community for their rights.
roland manue 2 years ago
Don’t be worry because we knew this was coming and people will rise and defend this people world wide I would be more worry if I was white because if this right wing racist mentality continues world wide people will eventually get tired and you know will be targeted world wide white people.
Agnes Conway 2 years ago
Didn’t we really expect him and the Republicans turning their  backs on the Native Americans AND those in America who work for an existing wage, who need medical insurance that is reasonable, who have kids with disabilities, who struggle to make ends meet  (and usually don’t) —– These citizens are the future of America, these citizens are what he will need to help him these next four years.
Time will  tell and if he  goes back on  his “promises” within two years – the Democrats will take back the Congress and he  will feel what Obama has gone thru in these last two years. Let’s just hope and pray that America does slide too far backwards. Keep praying America, keep praying.
George Molelet 2 years ago
I want to see a Native as President.
Brent 2 years ago
Every new administration puts up their own web site, this is nothing new.
Obama did it as did Bush.  Below is the link to the archive Obama White House site.
While  I agree that Trump doesn’t not care whose rights he steps on nor who he hurts let’s keep the facts straight, shall we.
Frieda Byars 2 years ago
Did you send him a message asking why if this is true.  I would like to know.
Chuck 2 years ago
The site is still available under an archive address for public record
Broken links can be accessed by correcting the domain name in the link
Chuck 2 years ago
I am also confident that as Trump gets rolling his site will expand to cover more, if you are concerned, it’s easy to send him your concerns.  He can be contacted directly via twitter, Facebook and the whitehouse website.
Rex 2 years ago
On a White House press release, dated 1/17/17, the Obama administration said that they would be archiving the data. Each administration operates and is responsible for their page. Obamawhitehouse.gov
holly 2 years ago
They took down the Purple Unicorn website too. The Purple Unicorn People (P.U.P.) are special and deserve more rights than other people. That’s not fair. I guess they’ll have to make their own website and ask for all kinds of donations.
Josh Darling 2 years ago
It will be 4 more years of this. They also took down the LGBT resource pages.
These people are monsters.
Devorah 2 years ago
Please tell me this is not true…But if it is, there is going be to a lot of her jewelry in Church! lol Because those will be the only women buying her baubles, and he will have disgraced this Country more than he already has, around the World! My guess is it wont be long before the manure really hits the fan! Oy Vey! If this were not so horrible, it would be the worst joke ever told!
Phil W 2 years ago
found it in the transfer to archive https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/nativeamericans
izopnyde 2 years ago
Drink no poisoned water, . . .
Devorah 2 years ago
I went to the site and though they may have taken down the Native American Web Page, which is really a childish move on his part, his wife’s bio is just that, a bio, and not selling her jewelry…I am NOT a fan of this man AT ALL, but this is what the bio states..”Melania is also a successful entrepreneur. In April 2010, Melania Trump launched her own jewelry collection.” It does not mention QVC, and is simply part of her bio…Let’s not fan the fire with out of context understanding…As for the Native Web Page, did you actually expect anything else from a spoiled brat? Big mistake! One can never trust, nor expect more from a brat with temper tantrums…
Jason 2 years ago
The page has since been edited. I saw both versions – the original, which mentioned the jewelry line by name and QVC, and now only states that she started a jewelry line.
Ray N. 2 years ago
It did mention it when I went on there yesterday…probably edited after the backlash…
Bonnie Kirin 2 years ago
That is because they changed it after they got so much backlash. I read it this morning and it did mention QVC
Nana 2 years ago
Don’t be so quick to post false information.
From a friend: “Obama’s entire White House website was migrated to another domain, obamawhitehouse.gov, and Trump’s team took over the whitehouse.gov domain with a very basic website. This transition automatically took place after the oath. It will expand in the coming weeks, but recall that Obama’s had 8 years worth of content and his was similarly bare when Bush’s was migrated.”
Lorilee 2 years ago
I went to obamawhithouse.gov – and it took me to Trump’s Whitehouse site.  Wonder why that is?
Kenneth Elkins 2 years ago
The content on Obama’s whitehouse.com site moved to the National Archives site.  The full URL is obamawhitehouse.archives.gov.  When you left archives out of the address your ISP looked for something similar and sent you to Trump’s White House site.
Christie 2 years ago
I don’t know. that didn’t happen to me. Try again.
Kelly 2 years ago
You got the url almost right, but it’s missing a little piece.  It’s obamawhitehouse.archives.gov
Bret Brewster 2 years ago
Yes, a voice of reason. His site will expand and mature as time and Your input dictate, try sending a suggestion…
Gloria Brown 2 years ago
This happens with transition. New President new Web site. It will expand and keep changing.
Irene Lindsay 2 years ago
When Trump spoke of America for the Americans, he really meant for the Immigrant Americans, not the true Americans!
nancy hammond 2 years ago
Lol, make America great again and market your products on QVC.
Gary 2 years ago
We all have to be involved on some level.  I pledge to go `tea party’ on markwayne mullin, a Republican native rep in my district,  every chance I get.
Mildred 2 years ago
This is a troubling time for so many in these United States. Perhaps the Native Americans’ page is only down temporarily? I do not want to imagine things being worse for Native Americans, or anyone else, during the Trump administration. I am hopeful and pessimistic at the same time.
Side note – It seems the White House page on Melania Trump has been edited to leave out specific mention of where the jewelry is sold, or the name of the collection:
“Melania is also a successful entrepreneur. In April 2010, Melania Trump launched her own jewelry collection.”
MACCNIPH 2 years ago
He didn’t take down the website directly, he took down #Obama S website which included many pages one which happened to be our beloved Native page.  I’m sure he will put A New Native Page for us if one is Submitted.
SS 2 years ago
Paula 2 years ago
I’m told this is standard procedure as the site is updated again.  So maybe wait a while before getting paranoid?  On the other hand, what difference has it made having these pages on the website, to how native Americans have been treated during the Obama administration and before that?  I’m based in the UK, so watching all this happening from afar.
izopnyde 2 years ago
Sorry not SOP at this stage, he’s effectively killed the entire healthcare system. This is America’s BREXIT.
For example; If you get cancer or hepC  or even if you’ve been diagnosed and are in treatment we are now in jeopardy of being refused treatment!
And all those “projects ” from the previous administration are completely gone.
Understand?
Georges Cazzoli 2 years ago
NO!!!….I don’t understand it!!….if she wants products and sells her jewelry ok, but don’t took down the Natives American web page, not absolutely!!…….
Sue 2 years ago
Did you read her site? It’s a biography of sorts. There’s none of what I would call ‘promoting’ her jewelry line. Read and google this info before you comment.
izopnyde 2 years ago
And that my brother is the point. They will get rich while using us as their butt. He’s the ultimate crooked politician and expects us to bask in his glory. He never gave up his casino holdings and evidently blames the Rez casinos (and everyone else) for his failures. Indigenous Peoples are only in his way to maximizing his profits. He is nay my FPOTUSMUS
GPC 2 years ago
And let’s never forget his tax returns until we SEE them.  Seems to not be making the news lately.
Sweden Monitor 2 years ago
For all we know Trump has only good intentions in mind for you.
Remember he stated “I will never let you down”.
So this temporary web mishap is likely only: temporary.
J. Eaglefeather 2 years ago
Totally agree with you. Everyone jumping the gun. Stop doing that people. We will see what Trump will do. It took Obama a very long time an people getting hurt at DAPL before he did something. Plus I don’t think Trump took that site down there must be something else. Thats not a huge agenda for him. I think he had much more things to worry about than a web site. Please!!! ………… Apache!!
dora. 2 years ago
Why is th post online on facebook, was told it was fake news, need to straightened this out or correct it if it is fake. thanks no agurments please, just asking.?.
Thanks.
Laurie Mills 2 years ago
http://www.ncai.org/ so what is this then?  Looks to me like it encompasses quite a bit of news.  I doubt seriously that he is going to cut you off…give the man a chance!
Mokst'Leloos 2 years ago
The NCAI is our OWN org — not a Fed or Govt org. duh
So, that link is not relevant to the new administration’s actions against Native people, Tribes, disabled, LGBTQ, etc.
Sweden Monitor if you believe that person’s words, you are just as gullible as those who voted for him, they will begin their doubts about him in just a couple months and regret what they did.  This person does not tell the truth and many of the things he plans are not temporary!
Salvadorena 2 years ago
Because a white man has never lied to us before….
he could be adressing to the other site who hate Indian and  other minorities.
Right. Trump doesn’t lie (ha! ha! ha!). “Believe me….”
Tammie Sigler 2 years ago
I  hope it’s temporary
Semper Fido 2 years ago
Well, that escalated quickly.
tami 2 years ago
guess you forgot to mention LGBT peoples page gone as well? lets hope its an oversight and not a blatant disregard for LGBT2IQ peoples.
Iris Nesbit 2 years ago
web pages on civil rights, people with disabilities and climate change, are also websites, TEMPORARILY OVERSIGHTEDLY  taken down.  Please people, give me a break.  He said IMMEDIATLY, we will make changes to fit our policies.  Not a few months after being in office….He said Immediatly, and so it has come to pass, the American Indians webpage and LGBT as well as civil rights, disabilities and climate change are gone.    Gone. As in NOT coming back.
JB_Parrothead 2 years ago
Give the Trump administration the chance to get into the White House and set up their own websites. They didn’t remove that stuff. The staff that moved out yesterday removed all their stuff to make room for Trump’s staff. Sheesh, chill out and give the guy a chance.
Donovan 2 years ago
i think we need to worry about korea as well
The Donald is presumptious to say the least. The Women of America and around the globe have come together in the thousands to Make America Great Again . Bernie must be so proud that the Revolution has now Flourished beyond imagination!  A letter to The Donald: You may have won the Electoral vote but you see the popular vote has risen in the thousands the day after your imaginary millions who poured into Washington for your Inaguration. Your boo hooing about the press. Believe this Donald , the American people will stand together by the thousands and we will out number you and your billionaire cronies. The press will continue to display your arrogance to the point you’ll show all of the American People your childlike temperament.
heather 2 years ago
Patrice ,
It is important to understand the electoral college at first it might not make sense but it really is important. Here is something I found on refernce.com                                                                              What are the differences between the popular vote vs. the electoral vote in an electoral college?
Each state is awarded a specific amount of electoral votes based on its population. The higher the population, the more electoral votes a state receives. When the popular vote is cast, the electoral college convenes to cast all of that state’s votes for the candidate who received the most votes. Because the number of electoral votes are awarded based on population, it is possible for a candidate to win the overall popular vote but not win the electoral vote. To win an election, a candidate must earn 270 electoral votes. In 2012, it was possible to win the electoral college by winning the popular vote in as few as 10 states. Electoral votes change based on population, however, so this number fluctuates from election to election. In the history of the presidential elections, there have been a handful elections in which the candidate who won the electoral vote did not win the popular vote. John Quincy Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush won their respective elections despite a minority of the popular vote.
respectfully yours Heather
Shop accordingly
Astrid Caroline Jefferson Benson Unander 2 years ago
Put it back up !  What is happening to freedom of speech?
Monte Albert 2 years ago
All the content were from Obama, and all the whitehouse.gov content is moved to obamawhitehouse.gov.
It was not done by Trump. It was done probably by Obama administration. Here is the link to the native american website.
Wake up, it was done by the Trump administration.
JosephR 2 years ago
Wake up, the announcement that the change was going to be made was on the 17th – before the inauguration, and while Obama was still President.
Jack 2 years ago
am with you Monte…people are always quick to jump especially anti-Trumpsters. They do it with everything they here. It is almost laughable. They did the same thing about the Pipelines but didn’t focus on what Trump said multiple times To closely paraphrase.. “Under terms and conditions set by the US Government” which he further implied that just because he is signing these bills, it does not mean that they will be supporting everything the pipe laying companies want. He clearly said that it has to be safe and work for everyone especially the people. That’s quite a lot to leave out before one talks through pure assumption against Trump signing the bill/
Nendahwaab 2 years ago
What about the Indians?  The Supreme Court ruled that NA Tribes are to be treated as sovereign nations & all treaties with NAs should be treated the same as treaties with larger nations.  Trump doesn’t seem to understand that treaties are just like contracts, you have to keep them!  But the again, Trump wasn’t very good at honoring business contacts.  That is why contractors in NY won’t work with him.
Why does this article not include that the QVC line mentioned is discontinued?
Peter Huppertz 2 years ago
“So this temporary web mishap is likely only: temporary.”
Sure. I can hear it now.
“Oops, we accidentally deleted everything we weren’t in favour of. Sorry!”
… not.
Debra Doucette 2 years ago
Trump is doing everything to block our freedom of speech one of our rights
Nena 2 years ago
NOT TRUE.  Freedom of speech started being blocked with Obama’s Administration when we weren’t allowed to say “Merry Christmas” because it might offend others who don’t believe.  Or Loretta Lynch when she was trying to pass a bill to arrest anyone who so much as SPOKE against the administration.  Someone didn’t do their homework before opening their mouth.
K.J. 2 years ago
We weren’t allowed to say “Merry Christmas”? Where did you get that? One of the dumbest things I have seen in print. Someone didn’t do their homework before typing.
Hog wash! There were things being said about and to Obama right from the start, including the “N” word early on from the floors of Congress no less. Under G.W., no one could say anything or similar about that little shrimp man (remember Dixie Chicks or Freedom fries?). People tried and were jailed under G.W. As to saying Merry Christmas that was always a personal choice. However, given the ugly history of this country and around the globe, I don’t think people should be too proud what Christians have done. Under Obama, this country had tremendous free speech and that is about to come to a sudden halt. http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/236499-obama-gop-holding-loretta-lynch-hostage
Dawn 2 years ago
People were always allowed to say Merry Christmas, you idiot. Even atheists, who know Christmas was originally a pagan holiday, still say Merry Christmas.
GPC 2 years ago
I’m curious to where you got that info?  I heard about it several times but never substantiated.
Jeannette Peloquin 2 years ago
Why is everyone blaming the Trump Administration?  It could have been a member of Obama’s Administration who did it- looking to make trouble for the Trump camp.  Bill Clinton’s people took out the W’s on the type writters when Bush came into the white house.  People need to stop placing blame without proof of who actually did that.
Freddy 2 years ago
I really had to address this as this was a glorified story.
JB_Parrothead 2 years ago
The Obama staff took that website down along with other websites connected to that administration as they moved out of the White House. Why is everyone so quick to judge? This is a new administration. They have to put up their own sites. Jeeze…people need to just calm down. The main stream media has really messed with people’s heads, crating this unwarranted hysteria.
James Freeman 2 years ago
Yes, that would be you. No one ever once said you couldn’t say Merry Christmas at all. Just as soon as the words Happy Holidays was used, the bogus claim you just foolishly sited was put out. Tye fact is, Obama has said Merry Christmas many dozens of times. Get your facts straight before you accuse another poster of “not doing their homework”..
#GPAof1.5?
Carmen Johnson 2 years ago
Once a president leaves office he no longer has access to the white house website. It’s normal to make certain changes that align with your platform.. education.. gun control.  Not the people’s with disabilities act, Native American rights, gay rights (which is no legal above board) and women’s rights (which is also legal and shouldn’t be up for debate). So no Obama couldn’t have done it
His people couldn’t have done it. Only authorized members of Trump’s staff could have.
Heather 2 years ago
It is Trump admin’s responsibility to ensure outside people do not tamper with the new White house website.  I am sure by now the Trump camp has learned of these missing pages and will promptly revive them if this indeed is something the President wants to include on the White House website.  Already a Law and order and an Energy page, witb great information on Trump’s plan to use Federal Lands for oil production, so I am sure new updates to the Native American page will be upcoming!
From the White House website:
An America First Energy Plan
Energy is an essential part of American life and a staple of the world economy. The Trump Administration is committed to energy policies that lower costs for hardworking Americans and maximize the use of American resources, freeing us from dependence on foreign oil.
For too long, we’ve been held back by burdensome regulations on our energy industry. President Trump is committed to eliminating harmful and unnecessary policies such as the Climate Action Plan and the Waters of the U.S. rule. Lifting these restrictions will greatly help American workers, increasing wages by more than $30 billion over the next 7 years.
Sound energy policy begins with the recognition that we have vast untapped domestic energy reserves right here in America. The Trump Administration will embrace the shale oil and gas revolution to bring jobs and prosperity to millions of Americans. We must take advantage of the estimated $50 trillion in untapped shale, oil, and natural gas reserves, especially those on federal lands that the American people own. We will use the revenues from energy production to rebuild our roads, schools, bridges and public infrastructure. Less expensive energy will be a big boost to American agriculture, as well.
The Trump Administration is also committed to clean coal technology, and to reviving America’s coal industry, which has been hurting for too long.
In addition to being good for our economy, boosting domestic energy production is in America’s national security interest. President Trump is committed to achieving energy independence from the OPEC cartel and any nations hostile to our interests. At the same time, we will work with our Gulf allies to develop a positive energy relationship as part of our anti-terrorism strategy.
Lastly, our need for energy must go hand-in-hand with responsible stewardship of the environment. Protecting clean air and clean water, conserving our natural habitats, and preserving our natural reserves and resources will remain a high priority. President Trump will refocus the EPA on its essential mission of protecting our air and water.
A brighter future depends on energy policies that stimulate our economy, ensure our security, and protect our health. Under the Trump Administration’s energy policies, that future can become a reality.
First, leave the oil and gas in the ground! Trump is an old has been and a revisionary. We should be progressing forward. Second, “the adjustments” were made to the official website after he formally took “the office…” so, don’t blame President Obama or his administration. If any of you who are being nice to Trump or making excuses for his inept nominees or plans have read the latest from Mr. Trahant about the level of “budget cuts” that are planned, which will surely impact Tribes and IHS then I seriously have to wonder about why. Any economist worth his or her weight in salt would say a plan to reduce the nation’s debt by purely budget cuts alone is idiotic. The degree of wealth concentration in the hands of a few is the root cause of all this and capitalism has failed….creating general frustration and causing people to realize the game is stacked against them. Insiders win regardless as to their abilities or merit. Wealth is not equivalent to might. Wealth is not equivalent to intellect. They can only say they were born wealthy.
Alternate energy sources such as wind and solar have been edging toward or getting closer to being on par with the cost of polluting industries. Coal and fossil fuels have been receiving huge public subsidies for years but now we must consider the long term for human survival, not just how much money the 1% can make. The one thing that we can’t assume is that more of the same is not going to be good for future generations at the rate of consumption, destruction and pollution. Climate change is real. Any one who says otherwise has to work for Exxon. None of this is benign: the padding of the pockets will occur for a small number, the destruction left behind in terms of environment and human  health will be burdensome and the public will be expected to pay (in many ways).  E.P.A. has been prevented from doings its job….because of lobbyists and rich polluters who have deep pockets. That isn’t about to change.
James Freeman 2 years ago
The earth is the source of life… not a resource.
…says this Native American.
GPC 2 years ago
Dee Robinson 2 years ago
What does any of your double talk have to do with why trump took down the Native American page ???
Don’t try to normalize what is occurring. This act about the website is a true Freudian. It reflects his or his administration’s intentions. Plain and simple….
Cat Delgado 2 years ago
You may be right Jeannette. Where is the new link though? It must not be to important to replace immediately. Gotcha!
Jacqueline Farr 2 years ago
I’m not going to point fingers…yet. It’s still not back up so time will tell.
Betsy Rock 2 years ago
Just don’t understand why the first lady’s product is being promoted on QVC, but civil rights especially the Native Americans, disabled are denied. Not even a week in office & pipeline is going ahead.  Is communism next?
yellowb 2 years ago
Darlene McFarland 2 years ago
Trump has no rights to force a pipeline on native land , Trump is after money he doesn’t care about native people, sacret land’s, I will stand up for my native people so will the True American people,. Stop this pipeline
TribalMember and Proud of it. 2 years ago
SHARED ON TWITTER.
Help support Native News Online by clicking on our sponsors' advertisements.
Please Help Support The Native News Online
Enter amount (USD)
Subscribe to Native News Online
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 861,348 other subscribers
