President Trump tweeted about “presidential harassment.” (Photo: Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images)
More
Though it’s unclear what prompted the fiery missive — the Mueller investigation? Nancy Pelosi’s clapping? — Trump didn’t mince his words as he railed against “presidential harassment.”
PRESIDENTIAL HARASSMENT! It should never be allowed to happen again!
If he was looking for sympathy, he was out of luck. Many commenters took the opportunity to cite the president’s own behavior, from being accused of sexual misconduct by several women, to attacking his political foes online, to questioning former President Barack Obama ’s American citizenship.
THIS IS THE ONLY PRESIDENTIAL HARASSMENT I SEE! pic.twitter.com/85N3XT9hnP
Don't you dare talk about harassment. You have been harassing people your whole life. Sexually, legally, and illegally
You lying, obtuse, racist, white supremacist, orange clown show. You spent years trying to delegitimize the first Black president with your racist birther crap and all your other lies. You harassed him because he’s Black, you pathetic bigot.
If you don’t like crimes being investigated next time try not doing crimes
— James Felton (@JimMFelton) February 7, 2019
Several celebrities also joined the fray.
Then STOP harassing people. You relentlessly harassed President Obama with your lie that he wasnt born in America. #PresidentialHarassment
Like when you harass a president for his birth certificate?! That kind of harassment?
Off your meds, babe? https://t.co/1R74KNbef7
2things:
2)the comments under your tweet are amazing https://t.co/cpI0EhZuRD
Says guy who has been harassing the country for two straight years.
And even “Satan,” “Jesus Christ” and “Lucifer” found common ground in taunting Trump.
Yes and don't forget the dozens of women Trump sexually harassed.
Best collaboration since Job.
Still, the president’s supporters made sure he knew they had his back.
Stay strong President Trump. I pray for you every day. Despite all of this harassment you have still accomplished more than any previous President.
Don’t tread on us.
— CC (@ChatByCC) February 7, 2019
By Congress to continue they're further investigations it is a total disrespect and harassment on Trump and his supporters
Ultimately, if the president was feeling harassed before, he’ll want to steer clear of his mentions.
Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:
Yahoo Music
The Wrap
People
Yahoo Celebrity
Yahoo TV
HuffPost
Entertainment Tonight
People
Complex
AOL.com
Esquire
Rolling Stone
People
The Wrap
TheBlast
