US President Donald Trump, 72, is “in very good health,” his physician said Friday following an annual medical checkup lasting some four hours.
“I am happy to announce the president of the United States is in very good health and I anticipate he will remain so for the duration of his presidency, and beyond,” chief physician Sean Conley said in a memorandum released by the White House.
President Donald Trump underwent an annual medical checkup Friday.
The Marine One helicopter took him to the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in the Washington suburb of Bethesda for a full four hours of prodding, poking and testing, the White House said.
Advertisements
About Delia Innoma
Delia Innoma is a prolific writer, promoter, artist manager with full professional proficiency in English, German and Igbo languages.  She studied accounting and computer programming at the Institute of Management and Technology Enugu and Germany respectively. Delia is also a devoted mother of two and she founded the Diamond Celebrities Magazine. Her sense of responsibility and commitment to the Christian faith are essential forces driving her daily activities.
Leave a Reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Advertisements
Click banner to download
Bracket Interview With Diamond Celebrities
Bracket opens up on the secret of their success-- click to watch
Advertise With US
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 33,052 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Our Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this:
