stop
Loading...
Loading...
Live TV from 60+ channels. No cable box required. Cancel anytime.
Working...
Cancel
Unsubscribe
Working...
SubscribeSubscribedUnsubscribe
1.3K
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Sign in to add this video to a playlist.
Sign in to report inappropriate content.
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Oct 28, 2017
♪ "I've traveled the world to learn I must return from Russia with love
I've seen places, faces and smiled for a moment But oh, you haunted me so
Still my tongue tied, young pride Would not let my love for you show
In case you'd say no
To Russia I flew but there and then I suddenly knew you'd care again
My running around is through, I fly to you, from Russia with love" ♪
I don't own the rights to this video and unfortunately I don't yet know for sure who does either. Fair use. Hey Youtube, if I'm somehow violating your standards by uploading this then please feel free to take it down with my blessings. I'm not posting this for commercial use either. I just think it's funny as hell. I hope you enjoy it.
UPDATE: I found where the original video is from. Daredevil - Nessun Dorma Arrest Montage https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lO61T...
This video edited as it is can also be found at 1oneclone https://youtu.be/d7Uy0Uznw4E so maybe they were the ones edited this mash up together.
The music is "From Russia With Love by Matt Monroe",
the rights are owned by WMG Rebeat Digital GmbH On behalf of: WSM International. They have already claimed the copyright and monetization for this video via YouTube and are now allowing me it's use for this upload.
Category
Writers
Licensed to YouTube by
(on behalf of Shami Media Group 3); Sony ATV Publishing, LatinAutor, Muserk Rights Management, EMI Music Publishing, UBEM, LatinAutor - SonyATV, SOLAR Music Rights Management, CMRRA, and 10 Music Rights Societies
Show more
Show less
Loading...
Advertisement
Autoplay
When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.
Up next
Add to
Loading playlists...
