Search
Home Latest News Arizona Lawmaker Wants Porn To Fund Trump’s Border Wall
February 10, 2019
February 10, 2019
Republican state  Rep. Gail Griffin , R-Hereford, recently introduced House Bill 2444 , which would require electronics manufacturers to preinstall porn-blocking software on all electronic devices bought or sold in the state, AZ Central reported .
To deactivate the blocking software, a person would have to prove they are at least 18 years old and pay a one-time fee of $20 to the Arizona Commerce Authority. Manufacturers or retailers could also charge a fee for disabling it, according to the bill. Anyone who deactivates the blocker themselves would face a misdemeanor charge. 
The money collected by the state, according to the proposal, would form a number of grants, which would, among other things, help sex abuse victims and fund the president’s proposed border wall .
Recommended For You
Pete Marovich via Getty Images
The government Tuesday is in its 32nd day of a partial shutdown, as President Donald Trump and Democratic lawmakers continue to butt heads over his demand for funding for a wall along the US-Mexico border.
The bill defines pornographic content as “patently offensive” material that lacks “literary, artistic, political or scientific value.” It references the banning of “revenge porn” websites and addresses specific anatomical areas that cannot be visible in images:
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola [and] human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered or uncovered.
Mike Stabile, a spokesman for the Free Speech Coalition, told the Arizona Mirror the proposal amounts to a tax on media content and would violate the First Amendment.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arizona Senator Gail Griffin (R-Hereford) is reportedly the only sponsor of the newly proposed bill.
Similar bills have been proposed, including one last year by GOP Virginia state Rep. Dave LaRock , who wanted Virginians to pay a $20 fee to unblock content on adult websites. The bill stalled on the Senate floor.
According to the Arizona Mirror, the bill appears to be linked to a man named Chris Sevier. Last year, Sevier was reportedly issued a cease and desist by child safety activist Elizabeth Smart , who apparently did not approve of him using her name on a similar bill introduced in Rhode Island.
Sevier first made headlines in 2013, when he accused Apple of being responsible for his porn addiction . He was in the news again in 2017, when he sued Utah for refusing to recognize his marriage to his laptop. The lawsuit was thrown out last year.
“He’s been doing this all across the country,” Stabile told the Arizona Mirror, adding “he’s a bit of a jokester.”
Send David Lohr an  email  or follow him on  Facebook  and  Twitter .
RELATED COVERAGE
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
Recommended
VidRankXpress Enterprise A Revolutionary 1-Click Software Turns ANY Video into Endless Traffic Machine That Gets Page 1 Ranking on YouTube and Google and Drives Tons of Traffic from TOP Social Giants on 100% Autopilot.
Ad Ignition Software [Growth] Create and Run Amazing Interactive Ad Campaigns on All Your Websites and Control them All from One Easy to Use Dashboard!
TweetPush - ViralReach Pro ViralReach is a powerful Facebook content marketing SAAS that confirms 100% to Facebook’s current positioning, expectations, and plans.  Just feed in some keywords and Viral Reach will find powerful content from high-authority and non-spammy sources for any
#Gifzign Mockups Gifzign Mockups - The embed GIF mockups technology
ScriptReel - SyVID-Onetime SyVID lets you share and syndicate your videos to multiple video and social sharing sites. Currently valued at $67 but you get it for $17
Visual Voice Pro 2.0 - Webinar Edition [OTO1] This LIVE Training Webinar Series will give you all the other elements of Vocal Awareness that Arthur teaches to his Professional Broadcast students.
Traffic Takeover GOLD Lite Push-Button Software Lets You Takeover Any Website Online For  FREE Viral Traffic, Hot Leads and Easy Commissions
VidMozo Elite Promote A DEAD SIMPLE, Cloud Based App That Builds- Instant 1 Click SEO-Optimized Affiliate Sites, Curates Videos and Content and Gets You Facebook, Viral and Search Traffic on Complete AUTOPILOT
AffiliateNinjaPro Starter A Cloud Based App That Creates INSTANT 1-Click Profitable Affiliate Funnels to Build You a HUGE List and Gets Targeted Traffic and Affiliate Commissions on 100% Autopilot.
301 Link Builder - OTO The most powerful link building software is here. Get high quality backlinks from authority websites within minutes.  No Captchas, No Waiting - Get Links Instantly!
xMails Pro Commercial - xMails Pro Commercial - Grow List 10 Times Faster With 5 Times More Profits (Handle Clients Mailing and Make 5k to 10k per month)  Grow Your Subscribers List 10 Times Faster and Optimize Your Mailing Campaigns To 5 Times Profits INSTANTLY With Guarantee Of 500% More Openings and Clicks.  Send Unlimited Emails to Unlimited Leads Using
PlayPix Diamond The upgraded version of the drag/drop cloud video creator that creates studio-quality videos in minutes.
Web Stealth - Unlimited Sites + Developers Rights World's first app that is  very easy to set up and get your campaigns up and running quickly, so you can control other people's website content for you own benef
WP SEO Gold PRO PRO version of the JVzoo-exclusive WP SEO Gold software plugin
Reddule - VidViral Special Special one-time pricing on the latest edition of VidViral
Real Specific - Traffic Training This is the focused traffic training for Real Specific.
VidZio - 20 DFY Videos Vidzio is a player that let you make sales directly from your videos… Customers can shop and watch at the same time without ever leaving your video or even hitting pause, you're leading them from engagement, to product, to purchase.
SuperStores Reseller 100 Client License Get this Breakthrough Software that Creates Self-Updating Ecom Stores with Inbuilt Product and Traffic Engine In Just 90 Seconds...
EZ Spokesperson Creator - Developers Create your own amazing spokesperson videos using our massive library and easy cloud-based editing program.
=
=
Recommended
Social Vidio - Multi License Grab Social Vidio now before we increase the price...
Nicheology Upgrade - Automated List Profits Lifetime Access Get lifetime access to Automated List Profits and start building your list today with the PLR reports and templates.
Live Training and Templates Get advanced Facebook training with live QandA. Also, get your hands on FB copy templates you can use for your promotions.
OptinChat Platinum Power up your OptinChat with the advanced features like Exit Intent, Smart Targeting and more.
Trial PerfectWebinarHD Marketplace The Best Webinar Software That Will WOW Your Audience During LIVE Facebook Stream Using Dynamic Layouts.
Internet Marketing for Business People - Downsell Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
Digital Marketing Is For Everyone (CEO) Digital Marketing Is For Everyone - Worldand#39;s Best Internet Marketing Course For Everyone From Beginners To Experts
ConvertProof Whitelabel PREMIUM 100 Accounts Get Convertproof Whitelabel Platform with 100 user accounts + marketing materials and Done-For-You Setup.
NewsBuilder - 30 Sites Revolutionary New Self-Updating News Website Builder Using Automated Posting Technology And Integrated With Our Award Winning Traffic Software
StockKosh Reseller Premium 100 100 StockKosh Reseller Accounts. Resell them and earn as much money as you want.
Sellosity - The Smart Commerce Platform Sellosity is the ultimate ecommerce platform for smart marketers who know the power of selling physical goods online...
Recent Posts
ShopABot Pro Monthly Unlock EIGHT Major Features:  Autoresponder/Lead Capture Integration  Unlimited Giveaway Campaigns Add Advertising Code (Banners/Adsense etc) Advanced Customisation, Sub-Menu’s/Categories Hundreds of Pre-Made Sliders Templates for your Store and Giveaway and
Playtraffic Pro Yearly The Playtraffic Pro version comes with a host of advantages which will make your Playlist marketing even more beneficial. Get 100% playlist automation, set up once and publish forever. It also goes a step further and lets you easily modify existing playli
XNiche360 XNiche360 is a Bundle of Most Demanding Top 10 Local Niches  10 Niche Websites 10 Social Media Banners 10 Unique Logos 10 Email Swipes 10 VSL embeded in Websites
Link Indexr - OTO The #1 Link Indexing Tool which has the highest indexing rate in industry and help rank websites and videos in no time.
Social Daddy- [Consultant ToolKit] The Ultimate Consultant Marketing Toolkit For Social Media Managers And Local Business Consultants To Market More Effectively, Attract More Local Business Clients and Position Themselves As Social Media Marketing Experts.
LaunchShark Volume 2 LaunchShark V2 Is A Collection Of High-Converting, Professionally Designed Marketing Page Templates That Turn You Into An OptimizePress Pro!
Linked Assist Pro - LinkedIn Automation Tool The First and ONLY LinkedIn Automation Tool, for Marketers and Professionals, On JVZOO. Linked Assist Allows You to: ?Send Automatically Connection Requests. ?Message Directly to People? You Want to Connect With. ?Endorse Profiles Autonomously. ?Save Messag
Long Tail Pro Annual Starter Plan Long Tail Pro is the fastest, most effective way to find keywords that will help your website rank in search engines.   The Long Tail Pro Starter plan includes access to Long Tail Pro's entire suite of keyword research tools, including keyword lookups, re
Smart Funnelz Platinum PRO Create Unique Funnels That Guarantee To Sky Rocket Your Opt-In Rate And Generate Leads, Sales and Commissions on Demand!
OTO3 - Epic Plugin Bundle A Collection Six Premium Plugins For The Price Of One.
VidRankXpress Pro A Revolutionary 1-Click Software Turns ANY Video into Endless Traffic Machine That Gets Page 1 Ranking on YouTube and Google and Drives Tons of Traffic from TOP Social Giants on 100% Autopilot.
ProfitFox Enterprise The world's most powerful notification technology that shows your lead forms and promo offers to right audience according to their behavior and boost leads, sales and profits on autopilot.
=
Recommended
SpyCom - PRO SpyCom PRO is an upgrade to SpyCom with tons new features, commercial license and other licenses.  SpyCom is the worlds most powerful cloud based AliExpress market research, keyword research and niche research app that also lets you create FB Ad Images in
Covert Geo Targeter Pro The PRO version of Covert Geo Targeter is designed to maximize your results and instantly boost your clicks and profits to insane levels and all this at a fraction of the normal cost
QSC 2018 Captipic the ultimate personalisation tool. Captipic is a online cloud platform taking your business to new heights using the latest email and web personalisation technology.
LetMailbox Elite LetMailbox - Your All-In-One TOOLBOX for RAPID Returns on ANY EMAIL Broadcasts!!
VidSite Pro VidSite Pro Builds Instant 1 Click Seo Optimized Video Sites That Get You Traffic Build Your List And Make You Sales. Completely Done For You High Converting Video Sites In 60 Seconds Flat!
iPocketRocket Lite Forego the final fifth module of iPocketRocket by Eric Larson for an instant $20 discount.
Instagram Accelerator - Booster Increases your activity speed to 3 times
LiteApp Studio - VR Consultant Toolkit Discover How You Can Make Landing Dozens Of Mobile App Clients So Easy, You Could Do It In Your Sleep - AND Charge Them Over $500 - $2,500 Per App! MOBILE APP CONSULTANT MARKETING TOOLKIT
WP Dev Suite ULTIMATE UPGRADES Start selling your own software in less than 4 minutes from now…  WP Dev Suite allows you to easily tap into the MASSIVE WordPress Market, with YOUR OWN hot-selling plugins - instantly, no experience needed.
Live Vid Ranker - Reseller License LiveVidRanker is a Revolutionary SaaS system using Never Before Seen Technologies... all helping you to do ONE THING very well. Thatand#39;s getting Page 1 Rankings on YouTube and Google practically Instantly. =)
Traffic Trigger 2.0 OTO3 Pro Traffic Trigger 2.0 OTO3 Pro - 200 DFY Videos + new ones monthly
EZ Spokesperson Creator - Developers Create your own amazing spokesperson videos using our massive library and easy cloud-based editing program.
New Quality Weight Loss/Detox and Cleanse PLR (Safe-Diet-OTO) Brand new, very high quality Done For You Giant Weight Loss/Detox and Cleanse PLR pack with expertly written content - eBooks, editable videos, editable infographics, articles, graphics and much more.
Facebook Messenger Pro Facebook Messenger Pro wp-plugin: that allows your visitors to easily Live Chat with your business using Facebook Messenger Pro.  Allow your Clients to Easily Live Chat with your Business Boost your Sales – Don’t Miss Potential Clients Support your Custom
Nicheology Upgrade - Automated List Profits Lifetime Access Get lifetime access to Automated List Profits and start building your list today with the PLR reports and templates.
Sqribble PROFESSIONAL Edition | Superior Designs, More Options and Power Turbo Charge Sqribble With 150 MORE Templates, ENHANCED Content Engine, UNLIMITED Storage, 1000’s Of Images, Styles, Layouts, Customization and More! Lowest Price TODAY Only!
Fearless Netpreneur Magazine [INNER CIRCLE] OTO3 The Fearless Nepreneur Omega Wealth Coaching Program - The EXCLUSIVE Coaching and Mentoring Program For Those Who Are Ready To Go From Zero To High  5-figure Income  per month within a few months.
User Growth Software Allows you to covertly siphon traffic over any authority site to double or triple your leads and sales on autopilot.
DFY Member Special Bundle EXTRA SPECIAL OFFER: Bundle of Video Overload Plugin, 10 Done For You Membership Sites and Extensive Email Copywriting Course at Super Low Price
Omega Wealth Club - [Diamond Package] The Omega Wealth Coaching Program - The EXCLUSIVE Coaching and Mentoring Program For Those Who Are Ready To Go From Zero To High  5-figure Income  per month within a few months.
MailPrimo  Premium Membership World's No.1 and Most Powerful Cloud Based Email Marketing Software to make them STOP Losing their Leads, STOP Paying Heavy Monthly Fees and Generate More Leads, Gets them Better Delivery, More Opens and Clicks completely hassle free...
InfinityStore_20 DFY Stores Turn Your Website Visitors Into Buying Customers Using Product Discount Tech
Funnel360 Template Cub Our Exclusive Template Club Will Help You 10X Your Mobile App Business Profits With SO Many Stunning Page, Video and Graphic Templates, PLUS A Fresh Set Of NEW Templates each month To Help You Crush Any Niche
SociAutomate Platinum Lite Harness The Power of Social Media Automation To Get MORE Leads, Sales and Buyers on Complete Autopilot With SociAutomate!
Free Image Plugin For Wordpress Free images plugin allows you to choose from millions of royalty free images for your blog content. All from a keyword! 100% free click to see more
ScriptReel - Commercial ScriptReel is a cloud based video caption creation and audio translation app that uses Vega6's advanced Artificial Intelligence technology to automate caption creation and translation.
LeadFunnelCloud Scale Get this Cloud Based App That Creates INSTANT Done-For-You UNLIMITED Profitable Lead Funnels To Build A HUGE List,Drive Targeted Social Traffic and Affiliate Commissions In Just 60 Seconds
IFL - PLATINUM - PRO (Discount) Instant Funnel Lab - The Newbie-Friendly, Cloud Based Software That Creates High-Quality Sales Funnels With Done For You Products You Can Sell In Just 60 Seconds
VidSite FX VidSite FX creates stunning video sites with the push of a button. No hosting needed, no design or tech skills necessary!
5 Shares In The MTC Coop Start Getting Easy Traffic To Your Online Offers On 100% Autopilot In As Little As 3 Minutes, Guaranteed!
LIVE Engager Premium Live Engager is a web based application (SAAS) by which user can create live poll videos on their Facebook Fan page.  Officially Facebook Approved!
Traffic Jeet 4 Elite Traffic Jeet 4 is the most powerful video SEO suite ever invented. Get on the top of YouTube and drive endless free traffic to your business sites with this ultra powerful toolset that helps you master video SEO.
KontrolPress KontrolPress protects your sites and improves their speed.
Marketers HQ All the Best Marketing Tools, Training and Resources to Grow Your Business Each and Every Month!
