WeForNews | Latest News, Headlines, Blogs
Trump executive order to ban Chinese equipment from US mobile networks
Published
Washington, Feb 10 : US President Donald Trump is preparing to sign an executive order next week, banning American carriers from using equipment from Chinese technology players, the media reported on Sunday.
The decision is expected to be announced ahead of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona from February 25, the Android Police reported.
“Both the White House and Congress have been trying to ban networking infrastructure from Chinese companies for months,” the report said.
Chinese tech giant Huawei has been in bad light after the US Justice Department last month filed a host of criminal charges, including bank fraud, obstruction of justice and theft of technology against the company and its detained Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou.
Apart from Huawei, ZTE has also been listed to be banned from being used by network operators in the US.
The US has long suspected and often accused the Chinese government of encouraging trade secret theft as a way to build up its own industries which has reportedly prompted the US administration to take such drastic measures.
“Government officials are mainly targeting Huawei and ZTE’s network infrastructure business, so the sale of phones and tablets to US consumers would likely not be affected,” the report said.
Earlier in January, an Apple engineer of Chinese origin — Jizhong Chen — was found to have been attempting to leak confidential intellectual information about the company’s secret autonomous vehicle programme to a China-based autonomous vehicle company where he had applied for a job as well.
You may like
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
World
Published
Beijing, Feb 21 Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman arrived in China on Thursday with an aim to strengthen economic ties.
Upon his arrival at the airport, the Saudi royal was received by China’s Deputy Chairman of Advisory and Political Council Khi Li Fung, Saudi Ambassador to China Turki Al-Madi and Chinese Ambassador to the Kingdom Li Huaxin along with several other officials, Saudi Press Agency reported.
The Saudi prince is due to meet Chinese Vice Premier Han Zheng on Friday, before sitting down with President Xi Jinping in the afternoon, reports say.
Bin Salman visited India and Pakistan during his week-long trip, announcing new investments in energy and infrastructure, before arriving in China — Saudi Arabia’s biggest trading partner.
It is almost two years since his father, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz al-Saud, met Xi during a tour of the region in March 2017. At the time, both sides agreed to “step up cooperation in all areas”, according to state-run Xinhua news agency.
Lately, the Crown Prince has struggled to rehabilitate his international reputation following the murder and dismemberment of Washington Post columnist and Saudi critic Jamal Khashoggi in the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul last year. The royal has, however, denied any connection to the killing.
China is Saudi Arabia’s largest trade partner, outstripping nearby European nations and close ally, the US. In 2018, imports from Saudi Arabia reached $46 billion.
Pakistan re-imposes ban on Hafiz Saeed’s JuD, charity arm
The decision was taken at a meeting of the National Security Committee, chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan,
Published
Islamabad, Feb 21 (IANS) Pakistan on Thursday re-imposed a ban on the Jamaatud Dawa (JuD), formed by Hafiz Saaed to sidestep the ban on his Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and its charity arm, the Falah-i-Insaniyat Foundation.
The decision was taken at a meeting of the National Security Committee, chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan, to discuss the geo-strategic and national security environment in light of the Pulwama suicide bombing and its aftermath, media reports said.
The two entities had been proscribed in an ordinance promulgated by then President Mamnoon Hussein in February last year to amend the Anti-Terrorism Act with regards to proscription of terrorist individuals and organisations to include entities listed by the UN Security Council but this had lapsed.
Published
Belgrade, Feb 21 (IANS) The same-sex partner of Serbia’s Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has given birth to a boy in what the Prime Minister’s office called a “historic event” in a country that does not recognize gay marriage.
A statement from Brnabic’s office said Milica Djurdjic, who gave birth on Wednesday, and her baby were doing fine.
“Ana Brnabic is one of the first Prime Ministers whose partner has given birth while in office… and the first in the world in a same-sex couple,” according to the statement cited by Efe news.
When Brnabic, 43, took office in 2017, she became Serbia’s first openly gay Prime Minister. That time, the LGBT community expressed hope that she would highlight discrimination minorities face in the conservative Balkan state.
The Serbian Constitution does not recognize marriages of same-sex couples and clearly defines marriage as an act between a man and a woman.
Same-sex couples are banned from adopting children, although single people can do so regardless of their sexual orientation.
Serbia has made some headway in improving discrimination, inequality and incitement of hatred legislation, but many organizations lobbying for gay rights say these laws are not applied and there is still a long way to go to achieve equal rights.
Activists have also accused Brnabic of not being a more vociferous supporter of the need to modify legislation in order to ensure minorities’ rights are enforced and respected.
Brnabic and Djurdjic live together although there is no official document that recognizes their partnership.
The local media reported that Djurdjic, a doctor, underwent artificial insemination treatment in 2018.
The child officially has only one mother, Djurdjic, his biological parent.
