  (31 fans)
“There was always a country club mentality with this,” said Scott Amey, general counsel for the Project on Government Oversight, a nonpartisan group investigating government ethics.
The difference now is that the president also is the country club’s proprietor, and has handed out foreign postings and other government jobs to his paying customers.
Lana Marks, a luxury handbag designer Trump nominated last year as ambassador to South Africa, grew up in that country, but moved away more than four decades ago. She has spent most of her career building a business around bags that can cost $10,000 or more.
Marks declined to answer questions about her nomination, her qualifications or her membership in Mar-a-Lago, a short drive from her Palm Beach home. Instead, she said she was “honored that I can use my knowledge of the people and culture of South Africa to serve the United States.”
Read the rest of the story HERE:
At www.usatoday.com
 
     
     
     
OpEdNews depends upon can't survive without your help.
If you value this article and the work of OpEdNews, please either Donate or Purchase a premium membership .
STAY IN THE KNOW
If you've enjoyed this, sign up for our daily or weekly newsletter to get lots of great progressive content.
Daily
Post Quicklink Comment
These discussions are not moderated. We rely on users to police themselves,                        and flag inappropriate comments and behavior. In accordance with our Guidelines and Policies ,                        we reserve the right to remove any post at any time for any reason, and will restrict access                        of registered users who repeatedly violate our terms.
OpEdNews welcomes lively, CIVIL discourse.  Personal attacks and/or hate speech are not tolerated and may result in banning.
Comments should relate to the content above. Irrelevant, off-topic comments are a distraction, and will be removed.
   
          
   
   (You can only use the social login buttons before entering a comment.)
Comment:   
You can enter 2000 characters. To remove limit, please click here.
 
Username
Password
Forgot your password? Click here and we will send an email to the address you used when you registered.
First Name
Last Name
I am at least 16 years of age
(make sure username & password are filled in. Note that username must be an email address.)
1 people are discussing this page, with 1 comments  
  
Submitted on Sunday, Feb 10, 2019 at 10:43:32 PM
  
 
- Advertisement -
"Rob Kall's writings on the "bottom-up" revolution have real potential to show people that they can hold power accountable and improve justice. A book on this subject could help to repair the economic, legal, social, and political fabric of the United States."
      Paul Craig Roberts,  former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, former editor and columnist for the Wall Street Journal, Business Week and Scripps Howard News Service.
- Advertisement -
(by Page Views)
