Did MAD Magazine Lampoon Donald Trump in 1992?
The satirical publication got a two-decade head start on rubbing in the Donald's financial issues.
Claim
A cartoon lampooning Donald Trump over his lack of business acumen was published in a 1992 issue of Mad Magazine.
Rating
Origin
In June 2017, an image of a Mad magazine cartoon featuring Donald Trump was circulated on social media along with the claim that it appeared in a 1992 issue of the humor magazine:
This is a real comic that was published by Mad magazine in 1992.
Some were skeptical that Mad had really lampooned Donald Trump as far back as the 1990s, but it’s not really all that surprising. Although Trump wasn’t elected president until 2016, he had already been a public figure for most of his life. In fact, shortly after he became president,Mad released a book of previously published comics “chronicling his rise from obnoxious businessman to really obnoxious reality show host to uber obnoxious ‘Commander-in-Tweet.’” Cartoonist Garry Trudeau put out a similar book chronicling 30 years of Trump’s appearances in his “ Doonesbury ” comic strip as well.
Sam Viviano and Mike Snider created the 1992 Trump cartoon for Mad, which was published on page 26 of issue 3315 . The Trump cartoon only made up a small portion of the “ When Should We Believe…? ” page, which featured various politicians, musicians, reporters, and other public figures giving contradictory statements.
Here is how the comic was introduced in 1992:
Sometimes people lie. Sometimes people tell the truth. But sometimes, people lie and tell the truth on the same subject at different times! (Like, for example, BEFORE and AFTER an election!) So, the question we out to be asking about these people is not the usual “Why should we believe,” but rather…. WHEN SHOULD WE BELIEVE…?
The Trump cartoon appeared in the bottom-left corner of the full version of the comic:
Sources
Dear Reader,
Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without support from our audience. Producing reliable fact-checking and thorough investigative reporting requires significant resources. We pay writers, editors, web developers, and other staff who work tirelessly to provide you with an invaluable service: evidence-based, contextualized analysis of facts. Help us keep Snopes.com strong. Make a direct contribution today. Learn More .
Email
Subscribe
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Dear Reader,
Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without support from our audience. Producing reliable fact-checking and thorough investigative reporting requires significant resources. We pay writers, editors, web developers, and other staff who work tirelessly to provide you with an invaluable service: evidence-based, contextualized analysis of facts. Help us keep Snopes.com strong. Make a direct contribution today. Learn More .
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
