SPONSORED
 
 
Mouse over to Zoom
eBay Money Back Guarantee
Details about  Aretha Franklin Custom Decal Bumper Sticker
34 viewed per day
Item Information
Please enter a quantity of $qty_dummy$ or less Please enter a quantity of 1 Purchases are limited to $qty_dummy$ per buyer Please enter quantity of 1 or more Please enter a lower number Choose quantity that is less than $qty_dummy1$ or equal to $qty_dummy$ You can only choose quantity that is equal to $qty_dummy$
Price:
Sign in to check out
Check out as guest
The item you've selected was not added to your cart.
 
 
Import charges:
This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. If you reside in an EU member state besides UK, import VAT on this purchase is not recoverable. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab
No additional import charges on delivery
Delivery:
Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods.
Payments:
Returns:
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Last updated on  Aug 16, 2018 14:34:04 PDT  View all revisions
Item specifics
Brand:
Shipping and handling
This item will ship to United States, but the seller has not specified shipping options. Contact the seller- opens in a new window or tab and request a shipping method to your location.
Shipping cost cannot be calculated. Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Item location: Fort Wayne, Indiana, United States
Shipping to: Worldwide
No additional import charges at delivery!
Quantity:
Change country:
There are 8 items available. Please enter a number less than or equal to 8.
Select a valid country.
Please enter 5 or 9 numbers for the ZIP Code.
Shipping and handling
On or before Fri. Mar. 01 to
Taxes
Sales tax may apply when shipping to: IA*, MN*, WA*.
* Tax applies to subtotal + S&H for these states only
Return policy
Return shipping
14 days
Buyer pays for return shipping
Refer to eBay Return policy for more details. You are covered by the eBay Money Back Guarantee if you receive an item that is not as described in the listing.
Payment details
Payment method
Special financing available
Select PayPal Credit at checkout to have the option to pay over time.
Qualifying purchases could enjoy No Interest if paid in full in 6 months on purchases of $99 or more. Other offers may also be available.
Interest will be charged to your account from the purchase date if the balance is not paid in full within 6 months. Minimum monthly payments are required. Subject to credit approval. See terms - opens in a new window or tab
The PayPal Credit account is issued by Synchrony Bank.
 
