Donald Trump: “American Foreign Policy in the Hands of a Dealmaker”
Jump to
**AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY**
I’m speaking with myself, number one, because I have a very good brain and I’ve said a lot of things . I know what I’m doing and I listen to a lot of people, I talk to a lot of people and at the appropriate time I’ll tell you who the people are. But my primary consultant is myself and I have a good instinct for this stuff.
And I have friends that are all over the world.
I think NATO is obsolete. NATO was done at a time you had the Soviet Union, which was obviously larger -- much larger than Russia is today.
And if you look at the Ukraine, we're the ones always fighting on the Ukraine. I never hear any other countries even mentioned and we're fighting constantly. We're talking about Ukraine, get out, do this, do that.
And I mean Ukraine is very far away from us.
I've always felt fine about Putin. He's a strong leader, he's a powerful leader. ... He's actually got popularity within his country. I think he's up in the 80s…It is always a great honor to be so nicely complimented by a man so highly respected within his own country and beyond.
They're giving Russia big chunks of money for missiles . I don't even know if they are allowed to buy missiles. Why are they allowed to buy missiles? It's so unfair and so incompetent.
We’ll sell them missiles that don’t work correctly . Right? Let them sue us. Tell them to sue us. Oh, I’m sorry, they don’t work. Gee, that’s too bad. We’ll take in about $12 billion for missiles and they’ll say these missiles are terrible. And I’ll say “Yup, that was the purpose of it.”
But it doesn't help if I start saying, "I am very pro-Israel." It doesn't do any good to start demeaning the neighbors, because I would love to do something with regard to negotiating peace, finally, for Israel and for their neighbors.
I can’t believe what our country is doing . Qaddafi in Libya is killing thousands of people, nobody knows how bad it is, and we’re sitting around we have soldiers all have the Middle East, and we’re not bringing them in to stop this horrible carnage and that’s what it is: It’s a carnage….You talk about things that have happened in history; this could be one of the worst. Now we should go in, we should stop this guy, which would be very easy and very quick. We could do it surgically, stop him from doing it, and save these lives. This is absolutely nuts.
[Cruz] said I was in favor of Libya ? I never discussed that subject. I was in favor of Libya? We would be so much better off if Qaddafi were in charge right now.
A lot of life is about survival of the fittest and adaption, as Darwin pointed out . It's not all there is, but it's an indication of how the world has evolved in historical terms. We've seen many empires come and go--the Roman Empire, the Ottoman Empire- there have always been surges of power. Sometimes they last for centuries. Even so, some of us have never learned of them as of today. In other words, things change. We have to keep up with the changes and move forward.
English (US)
