When Iran’s Ayatollah Says ‘Death to America,’ He Means Trump, Bolton, Pompeo
As this opinion piece notes, 'Should we expect anything less' than threats?
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, called out President Donald Trump, John Bolton and Mike Pompeo in a speech to one of his huge weekly packed crowds.
He told those in attendance that when he says “death to America,” he means to those three American leaders.
Advertisement
Burning American flags, taking hostages, abusing and imprisoning people, shouting “death to America,” “death to Israel,” funding radical Islamic terrorism — and they are the victims?
Get out of here with that mess.
“‘Death to America’ means death to Trump and John Bolton and Pompeo,” the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said, referring to John R. Bolton, the president’s national security adviser, and Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state. “It means death to American leaders, who happen to be these people at this time,” he added.
Ayatollah Khamenei has reflected on the phrase repeatedly as Iran prepares to commemorate the 40th anniversary of its Islamic revolution, and engages in an increasingly bitter standoff with the Trump administration. The United States has withdrawn from  a nuclear accord with Iran , reimposed economic sanctions on the country, and stepped up measures designed to pressure and perhaps to change its leadership.
“Death to America” would remain part of Iran’s official discourse, Ayatollah Khamenei’s website, Khamenei.ir, quoted him as saying on Monday, until the United States changed its “evil and mean” ways. (source: The New York Times )
Should we expect anything other than death threats to the United States from the terrorism capitol of the Middle East?
Barack Obama paid them millions and they hated him, too.
Advertisement
Now that Trump is the president, the flow of cash has come to a screeching halt, so of course they hate him.
For some reason, these people forgot President Trump dropped the Mother Of All Bombs on Afghanistan during his first few months in office.
Don’t they realize that President Trump could wipe them off the map in about five minutes?
Iran says "Death to America" means "Death to Trump, Bolton and Pompeo," not the entire U.S. https://t.co/V2EVIeype5 pic.twitter.com/5jtVFnHfc3
This piece originally appeared in WayneDupree.com and is used by permission.
Read more at WayneDupree.com:
Related Stories
Latest Stories
14 mins ago
2 days ago
1 day ago
