PLEASE NOTE UNGRATEFUL P.P.s ISLAND
The republican President Donald Trump’s animus to people of color has had a direct impact on the policies his administration has implemented which explains why most Americans are equating the Republican Party with a racist organization.
I suspect that GOP leaders have information regarding its party being equated with a body of racists by an increasing number of Americans which explains their recent move to censure a known Congress representative in their midst after Rep. Steve King of Iowa had been serving for about 16 years.
The list of President’s numerous policies that can be tied to his racist impulses include the Muslim Ban;  the policy to separate children of a brown color from refugee families at the US SW border who’re legally seeking asylum as a form of deterrence; the current 2019 US longest ever government shutdown based on lies that there is an immigration crisis at the SW borders which requires his wall to be built.
See:  President’s History Of Demands For His Wall Proves His Current 2019 Stance Is A political Stunt
See:  Dear GOP, There’s Ample Data Proving That Trump’s Shutdown Over Funding For Wall Is A Sham
One out of the many president’s policies based on racism has to do with his inadequately addressing the need to rebuild Puerto Rico after it was devastated by 2017 hurricanes. As per the latest news, the president had told then-White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly and then-Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney that he did not want a single dollar going to Puerto Rico, because he thought the island was misusing the money and taking advantage of the government.
PRESIDENT  IN PUERTO RICO
Here’s the rest of the story…
On January 17, 2019, Matthew Yglesias of VOX penned the following report, “Trump tried to illegally withhold disaster relief money from Puerto Rico” (“Trump’s handling of his one big external crisis remains terrifying.”)
Excerpts:
“A  Washington Post article on the resignation of deputy Housing and Urban Development Secretary Pam Patenaude , a housing policy professional who’s been de facto running the department under the vague auspices of Ben Carson, also contains the stunning information that President Trump attempted to illegally cut off federal disaster assistance to the island of Puerto Rico.”
“But the new report says Trump went beyond bad tweets and tried to base policy on this misapprehension, urging his team to violate the law and redirect the disaster assistance money to Texas and Florida instead:”
“Trump told then-White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly and then-Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney that he did not want a single dollar going to Puerto Rico, because he thought the island was misusing the money and taking advantage of the government, according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive internal deliberations. Instead, he wanted more of the money to go to Texas and Florida, the person said.”
“POTUS was not consolable about this,” the person said.”
“Patenaude toldWhite House budget officialsduring an early December meeting in the Situation Room that the money had been appropriated by Congress and must be sent, according to two people with direct knowledge of the meeting. She assured them that HUD had proper oversight of the funds.”
“This is shocking on its own terms, but many shocking things come to light in any given week of the Trump administration. Misconduct related to the handling of Hurricane Maria is, however, especially noteworthy because it stands at the intersection of all the major themes of his administration — incompetence, disregard for legal niceties, racial animus, and a Republican Party that’s completely abdicated its obligations of constitutional oversight.”
Trump has only faced one really bad crisis, and he botched it
“George W. Bush’s administration’s first term was defined by 9/11, and Barack Obama’s by the financial crisis. Trump hasn’t faced a comparable dominant external challenge.”
PUERTO RICO AFTER HURRICANE MARIA
“But Hurricane Maria — a punishing storm that hit an island with rickety infrastructure — is the closest he’s come, a problem that he did not cause and that any administration would struggle to handle. Trump did not just struggle with Maria; he failed miserably. To the best of our knowledge,  thousands of people died due to the hurricane and months of ensuing blackouts . Trump’s only reaction has been to  get angry at people who point out how bad it was .”
“Presidents have a range of formal and informal powers, and one of the most important informal ones is to convey to the bureaucracy and to second-tier political appointees what they think their priorities should be.”
PUERTO RICO 2017
“Trump has never, in any way, conveyed an interest in promoting recovery in Puerto Rico. What we learned Thursday (1/17/19) is that he’s actually done the opposite — he demonstrated a personal desire, grounded in ignorance or racism or both, in making sure that help did not arrive on the island. That’s a catastrophe for the people directly affected, who are US citizens, but also an incredibly scary precedent for the rest of us.”
Share this:
Post navigation
Gronda, time after time after time the US President reveals optics matter more than substance, winning an arguement matters more than helping people, and sales schtick matters more than character and accountability.
This example is just one more of how the US President occupies the White House, but should never be confused with a real leader. Keith
Dear Keith,
Your points are well taken. Now that the president is cornered where he is in serious legal jeopardy with staffers in the White House who cannot restrain him from acting out, what’s there to worry about?
Hugs, Gronda
There’s no way to feel anything but negative feelings for this FIDIOT!! … ‘One out of the many ‘so-called’ president’s policies based on racism has to do with his inadequately addressing the need to rebuild Puerto Rico after it was devastated by 2017 hurricanes. As per the latest news, the president had told then-White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly and then-Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney that he did not want a single dollar going to Puerto Rico, because he thought the island was misusing the money and taking advantage of the government.’
Dear Horty,
I’m at the point where I would  be very tempted to avoid anyone who supported this president because of what he has been doing  which are outright demonstrations of evil and cruelty.
His lack of compassion and a kindness gene is beyond belief. What he has done to Puerto Rico is inexcusable
Thanks a million for all of your support and for this reblog.
Hugs, Gronda.
Hugs!
Dear Jill,
If there is such a thing as evil smart, President Trump fits the bill. He is now catering to a base of anti-immigration hardliners/ racists/ plus White Evangelicals who are anti-LGBTQ / Transgender rights plus selfish, greedy rich hoarders. These supporters have nowhere else to go except President Trump to get their wishes met.
That’s why I  think he’s wrong about the wall but he didn’t want to risk losing his base. By keeping them consolidated, he is able to keep GOP law makers in line. They live in fear that they will find themselves primaried  or being cut off by the mega donors.
Anyone who would support this man at this stage of his presidency, is by definition, suspect.
Hugs, Gronda
he wants to piss off Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
Dear Sotomayor111,
I’m a huge fan of  Alexandria Ocasio Cortez as I love the way she counters the right with a great big smile. They can’t get her down. She has a style that works for her.
Hugs, Gronda
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. (  Log Out  /  Change  )
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Respect Award
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,003 other followers
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
