✕
Trump wants fewer immigrants from “shithole countries” and more from places like Norway
He reportedly made the racist remarks during a meeting Thursday.
Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images
President Trump reportedly referred to Haiti and countries in Africa as “shithole countries” and called for more immigrants from places like Norway at an Oval Office meeting with lawmakers, two people briefed on the meeting told the Washington Post on Thursday night .
NBC News later confirmed the account:
. @NBCNews source: As Durbin explained how deal would impact ppl from Haiti, Trump said, "Haiti? Why do we want people from Haiti here?" Then they got Africa. 'Why do we want these people from all these shithole countries here? We should have more people from places like Norway."
The meeting was intended to hammer out an immigration deal that would extend protections and offer a path to citizenship to DACA recipients, but also include money for border security and reforms to some immigration programs.
According to the Post , one deal being considered would allow visas from the diversity lottery to go to immigrants who just lost Temporary Protected Status , which allowed them to stay and work in the US — including those from Haiti and El Salvador, whose protections are expiring next year.
That’s the broad context for Trump’s outburst. But this isn’t the first time Trump has reportedly made racist comments about immigrants from predominantly nonwhite countries.
A New York Times report in December recounted a meeting in the Oval Office at which Trump railed against the recipients of US visas in 2017. During it, he reportedly complained Haitians “all have AIDS” and Nigerians would never “go back to their huts.” The White House denied Trump made those remarks.
This time, the White House responded with a statement that contained no denials: “Certain Washington politicians choose to fight for foreign countries, but President Trump will always fight for the American people,” CNN’s Jim Sciutto reported. “The White House went on to say Trump wants immigrants who can “contribute to our society, grow our economy and assimilate into our great nation.” (The White House has not returned Vox’s request for comment.)
And the WH does not deny POTUS “sh*thole” comments. pic.twitter.com/GRraWOt35d
Most Read
Subscribe
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.     For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page .
This Article has a component height of 13. The sidebar size is medium.
The Latest
