Search
Home News 2019 Fox News’ Sean Hannity Issues Warning To People Saying Trump ‘Caved’
February 10, 2019
February 10, 2019
Many right-wing figures lined up Friday night to criticize President Donald Trump for temporarily ending the government shutdown for three weeks without having convinced Congress to fund his proposed U.S.-Mexico border wall.
Controversial commentator Ann Coulter called Trump “ the biggest wimp ever to serve as president” and Fox Business host Lou Dobbs said Trump had been “ whipped ” by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).
Fox News’  Sean Hannity , however, had a different take.
The “Hannity” host, who is a staunch supporter of the president and even joined him on stage at a Missouri rally ahead of the 2018 midterms, insisted that Trump still “holds all the cards” when it comes to negotiating with Congress for the wall.
Hannity claimed that Trump would simply declare a national emergency to obtain the funds if he couldn’t seal a deal for the wall with Congress during the next three weeks that the government is reopened.
Recommended For You
RELATED…
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
LetSpinio Silver Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
Easy Bonus Builder Deluxe Upgrade Built-in library of 150 plug-in-and-profit, ready Bonus products into your software account.
xMails Resellers Advanced Make $5000 to $10,000 this week with xMails with Official Reseller rights  Allowing you to make unlimited xMails Accounts for your Clients,  and charge them monthly, yearly just like aweber, getresponse, mailchimp  or a one-time high fee for the most need
SociBot GOLD 'LITE' - Discount SociBot is an all in one Facebook traffic and commission getting software that will help you to grow your business on autopilot, even whilst your asleep!
Mailing For Money How to make $100 per day or more from an email list in 10 minutes or less per day
Cloud Defender v2 Developer Edition Complete Cloud Site Security for you and your clients Inc Dev Rights - Tested and proven system for setting up the ultimate in server security, creating a virtual 'cloud' based fence that will protect your site from Bad Bots, Site Scrapers, DDOS attacks e
AffiliStores LICENSE Pro Create Highly Profitable Affiliate Stores In Minutes! Crush It With Amazon, AliExpress, eBay and Many Other Affiliate Marketplaces!
Instaffiliate All-In-One: Licensing Deal - Payment Plan Reseller License (or 100% Instant Commission) to Instaffiliate All-In-One Edition (the entire collection of Instaffiliate websites and systems) + $700 on the licensing deal paid instantly.
=
=
Agency Pro - Lifetime OTO2 Vidify is a SAAS platform to create and share amazing viral marketing videos.
Affiliate Ninja Training Elite Here is How You Can Upgrade To The Elite Ninja Training Videos And Watch Over The Shoulder Exactly How To 5-10X Your Marketing Results!
Shot Messenger FE [Agency] Use FB messenger as FREE Auto Responder with 100% Open Rate Guaranteed In World's 1st Fb Messenger Marketing Suite  Build Unlimited List, Broadcast Unlimited Messages To Unlimited Subscribers On Facebook and Connect With Them Right Inside Their Fb Messenger
Memester Pro Yearly Profit boosters that are only a part of Memester Pro Version include support for 20 Facebook Groups, 30  Facebook Pages, 10 Facebook Profiles, 15 Twitter Accounts and 15 YouTube Channels.  You also get extended capabilities which will enable you to make l
Credi Response - Facebook Course It gives you the entire roadmap right from which niche is profitable to set up your e-com stores to what you need on it and also inputs on how to run Facebook campaigns.  You will get the exact system needed to drive traffic and make money from Facebook a
Lifetime Studio FX Professional R Lifetime Bundle of Pixel Studio FX and Social Studio FX. Professional version.  Please note you *must* have purchased Lifetime Studio FX or this will not work.
Easy Channel Wizard Create Amazing Looking YouTube Channel Artwork with Just a Few Clicks!
Your Aiwis Unlimited and Developer Rights Aiwis - The Artificial Intelligence Website Interactive System -  Unlimited and Developer Rights ALL IN ONE Ultimate bundle To Enhance Your Marketing and Profits like NEVER Before...
LetSlotio Booster Gold Gamify your Lead Generation for 3X More Leads and Sales.
Traffic Takeover AGENCY Lite Push-Button Software Lets You Takeover Any Website Online For  FREE Viral Traffic, Hot Leads and Easy Commissions
IM VIP TRAINING - MONTHLY IM VIP Training -  Access to over 240 lessons, software, templates, plugins, live webinars and much more.
KickassTuber Club - Monthly The World's First "All-In-One" YouTube Graphics And Video Branding Platform - Pro Club Monthly Membership
PostViral Campaigns Make Facebook Posts Go Viral
LetMailbox OTO2 Lite LetMailbox - Your All-In-One TOOLBOX for RAPID Returns on ANY EMAIL Broadcasts!!
Madsense Reborn 2.0 - OTO 2 How Complete Newbies Turn A $5 Budget Into THOUSANDS Per Month Working Just 30 Minutes Per Day! TIME TESTED System That Works For ANYONE!
ChatterBot - Reseller License The reseller license gives you higher commissions when you sell ChatterBot. We take care of all the product development and support headaches for you.
Canvas - Personal Canvas - The High-End Cloud-Based Facebook Business Fan Page Video Header Design Suite
MaticPress (Developer License) Are you struggling to create high-quality and rich-content website? With this brand new WP theme, now you can build rich-content website without creating any single of content... Build viral niche sites, drive free traffic, build list, and make money on c
PowerPoint Animated Cartoon Backgrounds - Uber Collection The Uber Kartoon Background Kit combines 4 seperate collections into one special package. There's 39 "ready to go" animated PowerPoint templates for a number of topics and niches, plus a variety of clipart to make it fast and easy to modify and create you
VideoWhizz Scale Plan A Revolutionary Video Personalization, Customization, Notification, and Monetization Technology that Drives Maximum Engagement, Conversions, Opt-Ins, and Sales.
Memester Agency Yearly The Memester Agency version will let you make video memes for others and profit from it without creating a single social media file.  A lot of local businesses are struggling to build a strong internet social presence. Many of them even have Facebook page
EasyStores - Premium Revolutionary New Self-Updating Store Builder Using New "LIVE" Technology And Integrated With Our Award Winning Traffic Software
=
Convertri Agency licence for Convertri
EsyVid Commercial Transform Old Sites and Content Into Stunning Videos With The Push Of a Button!
Launchify360 LITE Get the EXACT Step-By-Step Blueprint, Software And Toolkit Used To CREATE and LAUNCH A Product That SOLD Over $365,508 in 5 days On JVZoo!
OmniEngine Pro Fastest and Easiest system brand new newbies are using to make 4-5 fig/m income online.
Credi Response Agency Yearly The agency version of Credi Response will give you the right to use this software for unlimited clients. Earn money without creating a single Facebook fan page or Facebook ad.  We also give you an added tool the Facebook lead finder which will help you fi
LIVEreel - Multi LIVEreel is a cloud based software that let you go live using a pre-recorded video on multiple social networks at once.
Go Upgrade 2 - CTA Library Access to our CTA library with high quality done for you call to actions that make leads want to give you there information. No need to hire a designer, because our designers already did the work!
YOUR BUSINESS PAGE An easy to use system that creates social-powered business landing page in seconds.
WP SEO Gold Agency Agency version of the JVzoo-exclusive WP SEO GOLD software plugin.
VidZio Pro - Unlimited Campaigns Vidzio is a player that let you make sales directly from your videos… Customers can shop and watch at the same time without ever leaving your video or even hitting pause, you're leading them from engagement, to product, to purchase.
Leads Profiter - WP Alterzon Pro Leads Profiter Is The First Ever Software On Jvzoo for Quickly Building A List and Raking Profit Online On Complete AutoPilot Without Investing In Any Other Tool
Easy Sales Wizard Software Create all the Sales Page Graphics to Skyrocket your Conversions with this Simple to Use Software!
Playtraffic Reseller You can resell Playtraffic as a Promoter or as an Owner yourself. We have two powerful options for you. Choose between Whitelabel or Reseller.  When you sign up as a reseller for Playtraffic we give you everything you need to sell it. Use our sales page a
Gifzign Unlimited Gifzign with all upsells, mockups, frames and grow
Public Domain PrintShop Public Domain PrintShop is your guide to uncovering tons of FREE Public Domain content to use to make tons of digital and print products for free. You're also getting tips, tricks and secrets to selling printed products on sites like Etsy and Amazon with
WP Easy Pages Extra Templates Rapid, responsive landing and lead page builder with EXTRA templates. WP Easy Pages donand#39;t slow down no matter what theme you use.... now with even more proven templates
Three For One Hosting Reseller 500 Package Three For One Hosting Reseller 500 Package -- 100% Frontend Commission on 500 Three For One Hosting Accounts
Ebook Goldmine with Resell Rights stunning collection of 40 ebooks/Training Guides + 40 ebook Covers  with Full Blown Resell Rights.  Resell it and keep 100% profit
Designa Suite [Viral Quote Machine ONE TIME] Activate ViralQuotes Machine and Convert Designa Into A Powerful App That Gets  You Traffic, Leads and Sales Completely On Autopilot
ScriptReel - VidCuratorFX2 PRO VidCuratorFX2 PRO is a powerful video creator that creates 100s of videos using just a keywords. This special ScriptReel offer comes with Agency license and all the PRO features currently valued at $134.
ShopABot Pro Annual Unlock EIGHT Major Features:  Autoresponder/Lead Capture Integration  Unlimited Giveaway Campaigns Add Advertising Code (Banners/Adsense etc) Advanced Customisation, Sub-Menu’s/Categories Hundreds of Pre-Made Store and Giveaway Templates and More...
ShopMozo - Unlimited Store DEAD SIMPLE 1-click cloud based Affiliate Store builder that uses the Power of Videos, SEO and Social Media to Automatically Add Affiliate Products from top E-Commerce giants.
Hosting Hosting of one affiliate site - per year
exPersona Pro exPersona is a revolutionary plugin that will display content on your site depending on who the visitor is or where they come from
Clipmagix LITE | Pretty LITTLE Things That Gets You BUYERS Clipmagix LITE : The MOST Powerful Creative and Captivating Pretty LITTLE Things Creator For HIGH Converting and HIGHLY Engaging Clipmagixs That Command, Mesmerize So You Can Get Paying Customers, FASTER. LOWEST One-Time Launch Special Price Today ONLY!
Fast-Track Facebook Traffic Exclusive Facebook traffic training from Michael Cheney (WAS $5860, now just $97)
Twitworkz Agency 2.0 (year) Twitworkz Following Builder is an amazing tool for auto-building your Twitter following. Twitworkz Agency Yearly allows up to 50 Twitter accounts and full use of the Content Module.
Video Wave Deluxe Monthly Unlimited Submissions, Unlimited Renders, Monthy Characters, Scenes and Templates
Henry Goldand#39;s IM Farewell Package you will receive every tools, templates,  source codes, high-ticket scripts that he  used to close $2,5000, $5,000, $7,500,  or even $25,000, 500+ video tutorials,  premium software, unfinished projects that  he paid to consult with high-paying consultant
IM Live PLR Upgrade - Automated List Profits Unlimited Access Get unlimited access to Automated List Profits and start building your list today with the PLR reports and templates.
Vidmonial Commercial Double conversions, trust, and traffic with brand new video technology. Vidmonial makes it easy to capture and create authentic video testimonial videos fast.
Photolemur 3.0 Upgrade This product is for customers that already purchased Photolemur from us in January and would like to upgrade to the newest 3.0 version.
Weight Loss and Diet PLR (Safe-Dite-OTO-2) Quality giant Weight Loss and Diet PLR multi-pack with eBooks, articles, infographics and videos.
