May 10, 2013
[Updated September 16, 2017! Originally posted in February, 2009 and updated occasionally. Since then, not enough conservative Americans followed the advice here to organize and unite politically inside the Republican Party and, thus, we allowed Barack Hussein Obama to be re-elected. Richard Viguerie’s new book, TAKEOVER: The 100-Year War For the Soul of the GOP and How Conservatives can Finally Win It , embraces The Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy as the key blueprint for having conservatives “take back” our Republican Party.
Now we have President Donald Trump.  Will he succeed?  How best to help him?  Get my new paperback book on Amazon.com,
Do Not Waste Your Time.
This Strategy will require you to attend a Republican Party monthly meeting where you live and spend a few hours before the primary and general election either walking your precinct or making Get Out The Vote (“GOTV”) phone calls on behalf of a candidate. If you can’t commit to a few hours a year to save your liberties, don’t read on, as this Strategy is not for you. If the future of your country is worth a few hours a month outside your comfort zone, then please read on. (If you’d rather watch a video explaining the strategy, click on the video below — about 21 minutes total. If that’s too long, a less than 13 minute video appears below it. And if the 13 minute video is too long, an 11 minute video appears below the followed by a five minute video..)
About 11 minutes:
Less than 5 minutes:
The Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy provides a template for good, decent, conservative Americans to unite and organize politically to help Get Out The Vote (“GOTV”) for the best conservative candidates in the all-important, traditionally-very-low turn out primary elections and to change the Republican Party from a half-strength, ideologically-split, ineffective political party into a full-strength, solidly conservative GOTV colossus.
[This Strategy works. Since posting this article and video, through aggressive recruiting of conservatives at tea party and other grass roots conservative groups, in person and at their web sites, the Maricopa County Republican Committee has grown from 1,989 precinct committeemen members to over 3,550 in March, 2012. You can read a short article about it here . We now have, in Nov., 2012, over 52% of our allotted PC slots filled, up from 31.8% in 2008.]
Again, this Strategy works.
Obama Used The Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy To Defeat Billary.
Need evidence that the Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy can work? Obama and his minions used this Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy to defeat Hillary and Bill Clinton and the Democrat Party establishment in the Democrat Party presidential primaries. Obama and his backers came out of nowhere to defeat the complacent “powers that be” of the Democrat Party. You don’t have to believe me – see the evidence with your own eyes. Search YouTube using the search words obama precinct captain. That search will bring back many videos of brand new Democrat Party precinct committeemen (also referred to in some states as precinct captains) explaining how they were recruited into the Democrat Party’s precinct committeeman ranks and how important their efforts will be for Obama to win the nomination.
This strategy has already worked in 2009 in Nevada and Minnesota. And Utah grass roots conservatives have united there to invade the Republican Party to vote in the upcoming 2009 Party primary elections at the GOP state convention.
We need more than feel-good Tea Parties. Do not get me wrong; the Tea Parties are great for networking and for physically demonstrating our numbers and wrath to the existing officeholders. The April 15, 2009 Tea Parties affected Obama and his minions. They first tried to ignore them. After the Tea Parties received media coverage, Obama and those who write his teleprompter scripts started to bad-mouth them. Obama’s friends in the mainstream media ridiculed the Tea Partiers. But, we need more than rallies and choir-preaching on internet blogs and web sites. Let’s face it – no Tea Party on April 15, 2009, had the numbers that Obama had at many of his rallies. Not one of those Tea Parties would have even filled up half of a Major League ball park. Those are the facts. With Twitter and Facebook, etc., those numbers increased, as we saw on 9.12.2009 in Washington, DC and around the country. But, here’s the bottom line: those tea parties and the rallies did not stop the Congress from passing, and Obama signing into law, Obamacare and all the other horrible socialistic, wasteful, crony-helping laws and regulations. The key is to organize and unite politically, locally, to elect better people, and that starts with becoming precinct committeemen where we live.
Why did Mitt Romney lose? His campaign failed to develop a GOTV “ground game” at the precinct level. The Strategy does this.
A Few Hours A Month Is All It Takes — And It’s Easy.
Can you carve into your schedule a couple of hours a month to spend on a weeknight and, perhaps, on a Saturday, to take our country back? Is your liberty, and your children’s, not worth at least that?
Don’t Have A Few Hours A Month? Stop Reading.
Where do the candidates on our primary ballots come from? An estimated 95 per cent of the candidates of the Republican and Democrat parties who win the primary election are those who are endorsed by the leadership of those parties.
Do You Know Who Elects The Party Leaders? Did You Elect Them?
Who elects the leadership of the parties? Do you know? Are you a registered Republican? Guess what? As a “mere” registered Republican voter, without more, you did not have a vote in the election of the present leadership of the Republican Party. Sorry, but those are the facts.
Only elected precinct committeemen get to vote for the leadership of the Party. Do I yet have your attention? Ponder the fact that only elected precinct committeemen get to elect the Party leadership. Don’t you want to have a vote in those elections? Getting into position to have that right is easy.
About 3,141 counties exist in the United States. Almost all have a county party organization. And, those county organizations almost always endorse candidates in the party primaries. And, usually, those party-endorsed candidates win. Tired of the kind of Republican In Name Only Republicans who are winning the primaries? Then do something real and become a Republican Party precinct committeeman! Guess what? About half of the Republican Party precinct committeeman slots, nationwide, are unfilled! There’s about 400,000 slots nationwide and about 200,000 of those slots are vacant. If conservatives filled up all the empty slots they OWN the Party. Precinct Committeemen are the Party.
Do I yet have your attention? Has the light bulb above your head clicked on yet? In some counties, like the one where I reside, Maricopa County, Arizona, within which Phoenix sits, TWO-THIRDS of the precinct committeeman slots in the Republican Party sat unfilled on Election Day, 2008. [Well, it’s now November, 2012, and we’re now at 52 per cent strength instead of where we were back in 2008 at 31 per cent.]
Spend a few moments and picture this in your mind’s eye: thousands of conservatives flock into the Republican Party and join it as precinct committeemen. And, in the next internal party elections, these conservatives (you, me and others) elect new, conservative leadership. (Or, instead, these same conservatives (me, excepted) sit behind their computer screens and put first on their priority list, instead of second, writing that next, great blog post that is going to, somehow, save the republic.)
Exit your mind’s eye. Back to reality. The Neighborhood Precinct Committeeman Strategy works! I have seen it work first hand. Click on the Nevada and Utah links here for more proof. I was, just by chance, part of achieving this kind of outcome in my legislative district in the 2008 internal party elections. Somewhat by design, somewhat by chance (I was one of those “newbies” who just, by chance, came into the Party PC ranks), conservatives, in my legislative district, defeated the old-guard, moderate Republican candidates by electing conservatives to the leadership positions. [This happened again in 2010 when we had even more conservatives in the PC ranks.] Same thing happened at the county and state levels. (Don’t know what a legislative district is? Hang in there – an explanation follows.) But the margins were razor-thin. And since then, we just elected 5 conservatives to the county Executive Guidance Council’s five “at large” positions. With all the new conservative precinct committeemen we recruited, those 5 won over 80 per cent of the vote on the first ballot. One long-time John McCain moderate got less than six per cent of the vote. The conservatives won because about a thousand conservatives left their keyboards for a couple of hours each month and got into the REAL political ball game. So, I and others continue to try to recruit more conservatives into the precinct committeeman ranks. We try to get people off the sidelines and into the actual, real ball game. Into the rough-and-tumble hard work of actually showing up – God forbid – at a Republican Party legislative district meeting once a month. Instead of typing away to the conservative choir on the internet. Egads! Oh, the misery!
Every state is divided up into legislative districts from which your state assembly and senate candidates are elected. Each legislative district is divided up into precincts. Precincts generally, in a city, are about the size of five or ten city blocks, depending upon the population density of the city. (My precinct, in suburban Tempe, Arizona, is about a half mile on each side.) Each precinct is allowed a number of precinct committeemen. For example, in Arizona, each party is allowed one precinct committeeman, plus an additional one for each 125 registered voters of that party as of March 1 of the general election year. (My precinct is allowed to have 12 precinct committeemen, and all twelve slots are filled by conservatives.) Arizona has about 2,000 precincts, with 724 in Maricopa County. We now have about 3,326 precinct committeeman with 52% of the slots filled.
So, What Does One Have To Do To Become A Precinct Committeeman?
The requirements vary from state to state, but Arizona is typical. One has to get 10 registered Republican or independent voters from their precinct to sign a nomination form requesting that their name be placed on the primary ballot. (In Ohio, for example, one needs only 5 signatures.) Most precinct committeemen run unopposed. I was able to get my ten signatures in fewer than 45 minutes on a Saturday. As suggested by the existing PCs, I got five extra signatures just to be safe (people move!). Before gathering your signatures, the Party will give you a computer print out “walking sheet” showing where all the voters in your precinct live. And how often they voted in the last four elections. You go to the homes of those voters who ALWAYS vote. They will be happy to sign your nomination papers. It’s fun. In 2008, I took my impressionable then-eight year-old boys along. A great, real-life civics lesson.
Because most precinct committeemen run unopposed, most counties, to save money, get the parties to agree that all non-contested precinct committeeman candidates be omitted from the ballot to save printing costs. That’s one reason why most voters don’t know about the office of precinct committeeman. Another reason: public schools no longer teach Civics.
So, what to do? About 200,000 precinct committeemen slots nationwide in the Republican Party are vacant. Hmmm. The NRA has about 4 million members. Think we could get some of them to become Republican Party precinct committeemen? Or Federalist Society members? Tea Partiers? SmartGirlPolitics-ers? 9.12-ers? SarahPAC members? Or other Constitution-loving folks?
If our existing elected Republican Party leaders will not respect our Constitution, then we must kick them out of office and replace them. It’s a pure numbers game. The more Constitution-respecting conservatives that join the precinct committeeman ranks, the more Constitution-respecting, and conservative, the leadership will be. And then, that conservative, Constitution-respecting leadership will endorse the candidate in the primary who is most faithful to the Constitution.
Is this all new to you? Why? Think about it. I was taught all of this in Civics in seventh grade in my public school in 1968. (I grew up in a rural county in the Midwest in the Sixties and early Seventies – we learned this stuff and saw its implementation first-hand.) Plus, I had the benefit of having a great dad (an Army veteran of Korean War vintage), who was a city councilman, county board member and county board chairman (among other public offices), and he taught me all of this early in life. And I had a couple of uncles who were involved in party politics. One was a mayor of a small town (he drove a truck from Normandy Beach to Berlin and fought in the Battle of the Bulge), the other a dairy farmer and rural town clerk. Their highest academic degree was a high school diploma. Back when that meant something. They are at the top of my list of heroes.
What Will You DO?
But what about you? Is this new to you? If not, why are you not a precinct committeeman? And if it is new to you, don’t you think you should become one? I do.
Thank you.
I am only one. But I am a conservative Republican precinct committeeman. And trying to recruit more.
Cold Warrior
“Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged.” (Northwest Ordinance of 1787, Art. 3, http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/nworder.asp .)
“Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism, who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens. The mere politician, equally with the pious man, ought to respect and to cherish them. A volume could not trace all their connections with private and public felicity. Let it simply be asked: Where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice? And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.” (President George Washington’s Farewell Address to the Nation, 1796, http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/washing.asp .)
“The basis of our political systems is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitutions of government. But the Constitution which at any time exists, till changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is sacredly obligatory upon all. The very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the established government.” (President George Washington’s Farewell Address to the Nation, 1796, http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/washing.asp .)
Advertisements
August 8, 2009
A courageous conservative Republican Arizona State Senator, Russell Pearce, explains on April 15, 2009 at the Arizona state capitol the need to become a precinct committeeman:
Please, please become a patriot and GET INTO PARTY POLITICS AS A REPUBLICAN PARTY PRECINCT COMMITTEEMAN.
Thank you.
Cold Warrior
Share this:
August 8, 2009
The office of precinct committeeman (“PC”) has been has been called “the most powerful office in the world” because the PC is the closest structured political officeholder to the registered voter. A registered voter has no vote in internal Party policy; a precinct committeeman does. A PC elects district, county and state party officers, delegates to the Presidential convention and RNC members. PCs sent to the Pres. Convention vote on what policies the party platform will be advocated in the next two years. Through a monthly meeting, PCs interact with their elected Party officials to influence legislation.
Here’s the point: the Party does have good conservatives in it who are willing to take positions of Party leadership, but they won’t get elected into those positions unless the Party has a solid majority of conservatives in the PC ranks. As a PC, you can devote as much or as little time to other PC tasks such as helping to get out the vote on election day and informing the voters in your precinct about the best candidates, how best to vote on initiatives, etc. Politics matter. Look at the outcome of the last election. But to be able to vote for the Party leadership, a conservative registered Republican voter must be a PC. It’s that simple.
Step-by-step instructions for finding your local Republican Party legislative district organization.
Do you have a Voter ID card? Some states issue them. It may tell you what precinct you reside in, which congressional district you live in, which state legislative district you live in, and which school district you live.
Your main goal will be find out where your Republican Party legislative district organization meets and then contact the chairman of that organization to let them know that you want to become a precinct committeeman as soon as possible. If you are good at searching on the internet, you’ll probably be able to do this by using the following search terms: Republican Party county chairman [name of your county] [name of your state].
If that does not work, then “start at the top and drill down.” Go to the www.gop.com web site. Then click on the “ourGOP” drop down menu and click on “States.” Find yours. Click on the link. The state Party Contact Information area will have phone numbers listed and a web site for the state Party web site. Click on the web site address. When you get to your state Party web site, look for Local GOP or Contacts, etc. Every state is unique, so the web sites will vary. Just keep trying to find your county and your congressional district and legislative district. Then start calling and e-mailing the elected Party leaders “closest” to you and tell them you want to volunteer to become an interim, appointed precinct committeeman as soon as possible and that you eventually want to become an elected precinct committeeman when the primary season rolls around. If necessary, look in the phone book and find the number and address of your local Republican Party office. Call them. If they don’t call back, get in your car and go to the office and bang on the door until someone answers and tell them you want to know how you, as a registered Republican voter, can become a VOTING MEMBER of the Republican Party.
For example, the Republican Party of Maricopa County, Arizona has a very good web site with tools for Maricopa County voters to find out in which legislative district they reside and how to contact their legislative district Republican Party committee. And the web site has a very good explanation of how and why to become a precinct committeeman and what a precinct committeeman can accomplish on behalf of one’s self and the Party
Go here:
That will take you to:  BeAPC.com .
 
If none of the above works for you, call the office of any elected Republican officeholder in your state that you know of. Tell them you want to become a voting member of the Party and you want their help in making that happen. Demand that they help you. They do work for us, after all. They are public servants.
Now get to it!
Want to motivate the wimpy Republicans-In-Name-Only to start following the Constitution? Want better conservative Republican Party candidates with a chance to win the primary and general elections? Then volunteer IMMEDIATELY to become a Republican Party precinct committeeman. Precinct committeemen elect the leadership within the Party and vote to endorse the Republicans in the primaries. The more conservatives in the precinct committeemen ranks, the more conservative the leadership and the primary winners will be.
Here’s a typical example of the situation: Maricopa County, Arizona. Includes Phoenix. About 6,000 precinct committeeman slots exist in Maricopa County for the almost 700,000 registered Republican voters. Only 2,000 of the slots are filled, and there’s about a 50-50 split in the ranks between conservatives and moderates. Of the 2,000 elected precinct committeemen, only about 800 showed up at the Maricopa County Republican Party Convention this spring to elect the leadership and vote on party resolutions. ONLY 800 Republicans OUT OF 700,000 registered Republicans were, on that day, “the Republican Party.” Want to be one of them? Knowing what you know now, why wouldn’t you want to be one? If we conservatives could fill just 1,000 of the 4,000 vacancies, we’d have a solid 2 to 1 ratio of conservatives to moderates.
Nationwide, about half of the precinct committeemen slots in the Party are open. We could cause a conservative revolution if we could get conservatives to fill those open slots. The current Party leadership would be afraid the “new conservative blood” would throw them out in the next election. The incumbents would fear that the “new conservative blood” would endorse the best conservative challenger in the primary instead of endorsing them. The only fear that will motivate them is the fear of losing their jobs. Precinct committeemen are in the BEST position to make that happen. So, please, if you care about the future of your country, become a precinct committeeman. Now! Go here for some detailed information:
Thank you,
Cold Warrior
I am only one. But I am a conservative Republican Party precinct committeeman and trying every way my feeble brain can think of to recruit more of them as fast as possible.
American first, conservative second, Republican precinct committeeman BY NECESSITY!
Share this:
A Few Instructional Videos -- Will take only a few minutes: Why to Become a PC and What they DO!
%d bloggers like this:
