Leadership Strategy I write about globalization, business, technology and immigration.
Share to facebook
Share to twitter
Share to linkedin
Donald Trump delivers his second State of the Union address, with (L-R): Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) sitting behind him, on February 5, 2019. (Photo by Cheriss May/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
Getty
During his State of the Union address, Donald Trump argued that building a wall would put drug cartels and related criminal actors out of business. This statement must have surprised the leaders of drug cartels, since Trump administration asylum policies have already been a boon for human smuggling operations and a wall would likely be even better for cartel business.
“Now is the time for Congress to show the world that America is committed to ending illegal immigration and putting the ruthless coyotes, cartels, drug dealers, and human traffickers out of business,” declared Donald Trump in his State of the Union address . However, those who have analyzed cartel behavior conclude that the administration’s immigration policies will have the opposite effect.
“Tighter security would probably make the border somewhat harder to cross, which would have several consequences – though perhaps not the ones meant by Mr. Trump,” according to Tom Wainwright, the former Mexico City bureau chief for The Economist and author of Narconomics: How to Run a Drug Cartel . “Even more illegal migrants would turn to professional criminals for help, and the fees charged by those people-smugglers would rise. The expertise required to get a person over today’s border already means that drug cartels are getting into what was previously an amateur business, sometimes loaning out their tunnels for people-smuggling.”
Wainwright notes that given the potential economic or safety gains for reaching the United States, smuggling is a profitable business and a wall would make it even more lucrative. “The construction of a ‘tall, powerful, beautiful’ wall in the wilderness would serve mainly to inflate the profit margins of the people-smuggling industry – enriching the very ‘bad hombres’ whom Mr. Trump says he wants to keep at bay,” writes Wainwright. “That isn’t a smart use of money, whoever ends up paying for it.”
Such a scenario is playing out today at the U.S.-Mexico border. The Trump administration is not allowing individuals to approach a lawful port of entry and apply for asylum, even though it is legal to do so. Instead, the administration is “metering” people near ports of entry, allowing only a small number daily to approach a port of entry and request asylum. In addition, the administration has adopted what it calls “Remain in Mexico,” which removes asylum seekers from the United States and makes them wait potentially “months or years” in Mexico for a decision on their asylum applications.
USA Today described the situation of Lilian Menendez, who fled from street gangs in Honduras and hoped to apply for asylum in the United States. “Rebuffed at the international bridge that leads to McAllen, Texas – and to U.S. sanctuary – Menendez said she was calling relatives to scrape together the $10,000 smugglers are demanding to float them across the Rio Grande, where they can turn themselves into Border Patrol agents and begin applying for asylum,” according the newspaper. “’I’m at the point of desperation,’ said Menendez, who has been staying at a migrant shelter near the border since Jan. 1. ‘The idea was to cross the bridge and ask for asylum. But they tell us we can’t.’”
A Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of Inspector General report confirmed that the policy of “metering” at ports of entry has encouraged illegal entry. “According to one Border Patrol supervisor, the Border Patrol sees an increase in illegal entries when aliens are metered at ports of entry,” concluded the DHS report.
Human smuggling operations, the kind Trump said his policies would put out of business, are capitalizing on the situation created by the administration’s asylum policies. “In the Rio Grande Valley, independent smugglers are charging exorbitant prices to sneak desperate migrants across the river and into the U.S.,” according to George Mason University Professor Guadalupe Correa-Cabrera. She notes that the Mexican criminal organization “Los Zetas” has splintered. “The smugglers then pay fees to larger criminal gangs, such as remnants of Los Zetas and the Gulf Cartel, she said. ‘From Central American smugglers, to independent smugglers along the border, all the way up to the cartels: Everyone’s making money,’” reported USA Today .
I have written several articles analyzing statistics that demonstrate there is no crisis at the border. Border Patrol apprehensions along the Southwest border in FY 2018 were the fifth lowest level of illegal entry recorded in the past 46 years. Moreover, as a Center for Migration Studies noted , “The total undocumented population declined by about 1 million from 2010 to 2017.”
America does not have a border crisis but a problem with addressing the specific situation of families from Honduras and Guatemala who are coming to the United States for safety, economic opportunity or both.
The administration should not “meter” asylum seekers at ports of entry. In addition, U.S. immigration law should provide more ways for individuals to work legally on temporary visas, whether through a new law or bilateral agreements. “A guest worker program will also alleviate the number of asylum seekers as many will simply be able to apply for a visa to come to the country rather than making the perilous journey where they may fall victim to criminals who control illegal passage,” notes immigration attorney Matthew Kolken.
 
Contributor
I am the executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan public policy research organization focusing on trade, immigration and related issues based in Arlington, Virginia. From August 2001 to January 2003, I served as Executive Associate C...
Read More
