Feb 5, 2019, 09:57pm
Trump Wants To Require Drug Makers, Insurers And Hospitals To Disclose Prices
Share to facebook
Share to twitter
Share to linkedin
U.S. President Donald Trump arrives to deliver a State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Feb. 5, 2019. Photographer: Aaron P. Bernstein © 2019 Bloomberg Finance LP
© 2019 Bloomberg Finance LP
President Donald Trump Tuesday night called on drug companies, health insurers and hospitals to “disclose real prices.”
Without providing details in his State of the Union address to Congress, Trump reiterated his desire to reduce the cost of healthcare in part by increasing transparency in the U.S. healthcare system. Though he didn’t say how he wanted “real prices” to be disclosed, he urged Congress to pass legislation that would make it a requirement for hospitals, health insurers and drug companies.
Trump also said he wanted Congress to take on drug costs and end the disparity in prices with Americans paying much more than residents of other countries around the world. He didn’t cite specific examples or say how he wanted to achieve such a goal, however.
“It is unacceptable that Americans pay vastly more than people in other countries for the exact same drugs, often made in the exact same place,” Trump said in his State of the Union address. “This is wrong, unfair, and together we will stop it. We will stop it fast.”
"I am asking the Congress to pass legislation that finally takes on the problem of global freeloading and delivers fairness and price transparency for American patients,” Trump added. “We should also require drug companies, insurance companies, and hospitals to disclose real prices to foster competition and bring costs down.”
The Trump administration last week announced proposed new regulations for Medicare drug plans and pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) that would change how prescription discounts are negotiated. The PBM’s share of rebates, which is the portion of the drug returned by the seller to the buyer, has turned into a nationwide controversy and drawn the attention of the Trump administration and Congress. The regulations are seen as bringing an end to rebates, a controversial approach drug makers have used to keep drugs on PBM and health plan preferred lists known as formularies.
During his State of the Union address, Trump claimed "2018 drug prices experienced their single largest decline in 46 years." But several groups Tuesday night conducting fact checks of that statement were quick to point out several instances and studies showing drug prices continue to rise.  The healthcare group Protect Our Care cited several reports, including a STAT report in January about Trump's "false claims" about drug price decreases.
I've written about health care for three decades, starting from my native Iowa where I covered the presidential campaign bus rides of Bill and Hillary Clinton through the Hawkeye state talking health reform and the economy. I have covered the rise, fall and rise again of he...
Read More
