Mary Papenfuss
More
A Texas elected official was roundly slammed after he called Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) a “bimbo” for criticizing President Donald Trump ’s State of the Union address.
Ocasio-Cortez apparently triggered the ire of Republican Scott Dunn , member of the City Council of Richardson, near Dallas, when she responded to GOP criticism that she wasn’t enthusiastic enough during Trump’s speech. She declared in a tweet: “ Why should I be ‘spirited and warm’  for this embarrassment of a #SOTU?”
Dunn tweeted: “The embarrassment is to have bimbos like you with nothing between your ear[s].”
After major blowback, Dunn deleted the tweet — and apologized. By Saturday his entire account was gone.
@Dallas_Observer @dallasnews This is from an elected city council member from Richardson in what is supposed to be a non-partisan position. pic.twitter.com/Amtde9i4iG
The New York Daily News reported that Dunn posted an apology Friday on his Facebook page — which has also since vanished. 
“ The words I used were offensive ,” Dunn reportedly wrote. “I am responsible for my own words and actions. I apologize to anyone who finds what I said offensive.”
Dunn told The Dallas Morning News that he had attacked Ocasio-Cortez “ in defense of the president ” and his speech. His Facebook page disappeared after several people who responded to his apology questioned its sincerity, according to the newspaper.
Ocasio-Cortez hasn’t responded to Dunn’s insult.
Dunn was attacked for his comments on social media and by a former City Council member. Richardson Mayor Paul Voelker said in a statement that he was “ extremely disappointed and embarrassed ” by Dunn’s comments. “I condemn the description of any woman in this manner as clearly inconsistent with Richardson’s values,” he added.
Republican political strategist and campaign consultant Ed Rollins last month called Ocasio-Cortez a “little girl” with a big mouth , and Twitter trolls relentlessly attack her appearance.
Trump slammed Megyn Kelly during the presidential campaign as a “bimbo” in a retweet after the then-Fox News host grilled him at a candidate debate about his insults against women, whom he had called “fat pigs,” “dogs,” “slobs” and “disgusting animals.”
" @timjcam : @megynkelly @FrankLuntz @realDonaldTrump Fox viewers give low marks to bimbo @MegynKelly will consider other programs!"
This article originally appeared on HuffPost .
Reuters
USA TODAY
FOX News Videos
HuffPost
Yahoo Sports
