 
Canada’s House of Commons on Monday unanimously condemned President Trump
Lawmakers approved a motion that rejected “disparaging ad hominem statements by U.S. officials which do a disservice to bilateral relations,” Reuters reported .
The symbolic move came after Peter Navarro, the White House National Trade Council director said there is a “special place in hell” for any leader who engages in bad faith diplomacy with Trump.
ADVERTISEMENT
A number of other Trump officials and the president himself also lashed out at the Canadian prime minister following the Group of Seven (G-7) summit in Canada last weekend.
Trump refused to sign the G-7 joint agreement after Trudeau severely criticized Trump following the international summit.
Trump officials have suggested that Trudeau double-crossed Trump by criticizing him on television after he left the gathering. 
Trump in a tweet slammed the leader of one of America’s longest-standing allies.
“PM Justin Trudeau of Canada acted so meek and mild during our @G7 meetings only to give a news conference after I left saying that, ‘US Tariffs were kind of insulting’ and he ‘will not be pushed around,’ ” Trump tweeted on Saturday.
“Very dishonest & weak,” the president added. “Our Tariffs are in response to his of 270% on dairy!”
PM Justin Trudeau of Canada acted so meek and mild during our @G7 meetings only to give a news conference after I left saying that, “US Tariffs were kind of insulting” and he “will not be pushed around.” Very dishonest & weak. Our Tariffs are in response to his of 270% on dairy!
Canadian lawmakers also approved a motion that supports the Canadian steel and aluminum industry that has been hit by Trump’s massive tariffs, Reuters reported.
The outlet reported that Trudeau kept a low profile on Monday after the verbal sparring and was not in the House of Commons during the parliament's unanimous vote. 
What America's Thinking
Rising
What America's Thinking
Don't miss a brief. Sign up for our daily email.
Your Email
