Search
Home Top News How Trump’s trade war kept Russian fish sticks in US school lunchrooms
February 10, 2019
February 10, 2019
A trade decision by the Trump administration has inadvertently protected a price advantage enjoyed by Russian-caught fish sold in the US, much of which ends up in fish sticks served to American school children.
For years, Alaskan fishermen have been frustrated by foreign competition from Russia, particularly in the lucrative pollock market. Caught in Russian waters, this cold-water cousin of the cod is processed in China before being sold in the US for use in frozen and breaded fish products, as well as imitation crab meat.
Russian pollock costs less than its US-caught equivalent. That’s helped it gain share of the roughly $200 million US market for frozen pollock, to the point that by 2017, about half the fish sticks served in US school cafeterias were made from fish caught in Russia and pumped with additives in China, according to the Genuine Alaska Pollock Producers, a trade group that represents 14 different seafood companies.
Domestic fish producers thought President Donald Trump would fix all that. The administration’s move to slap a 10% tariff last year on thousands of imports from China was supposed to erase the price advantage enjoyed by Russian fish. But instead of fixing the problem, the Trump administration has made things worse for Alaskan fishermen.
Enter the office of the US Trade Representative (USTR), which ended up excluding Russian pollock from the tariffs, preserving its price advantage over domestic-caught fish. On top of that, China’s retaliatory tariffs against the US means that Alaska’s pollock producers are now subject to an additional 25% tariff, limiting their access to the growing Chinese market.
Sales of American pollock in China nearly doubled between 2016 and 2017, says Pat Shanahan, the program director of the Genuine Alaska Pollock Producers. The industry was expecting even faster expansion in China in the coming years. But the trade war has dashed those hopes.
“The Chinese retaliatory tariffs have essentially closed the Chinese market for Alaska pollock,” says Shanahan.
Trade codes
At the center of the gaffe is confusing nomenclature and an arcane coding system that trade and customs officials use to label thousands of products that come into the US every day. The common name for the species, no matter where it’s caught, is “Alaska pollock,” though it’s also called “walleye pollock.” Up until 2015, pollock caught in Russian waters was still marketed as “Alaska” pollock. That year Congress legislated that only pollock from Alaska could be called Alaska pollock, at least in the US.
While that helped consumers trying to differentiate between foreign and American fish in the frozen food aisle, it wasn’t much help last year to bureaucrats having to navigate international customs codes. That’s because the tariff codes used by the USTR still identify the fish as “Alaska pollock” regardless of its origin.
The problem arose during last year’s public comment period on the administration’s new tariffs on China. The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute, a group representing a broad range of commercial seafood interests, submitted a letter to the US trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, on Sept. 5 urging him to exclude a long list of Alaska-origin seafood processed in China, including products made from “Alaska pollock.”
According to Jim Gilmore of the pollock-focused At-sea Processors Association, who saw draft versions of the letter before it was submitted, the intent was to encourage the US government to exclude only seafood that had originated in Alaska.
But the wording of the letter was confusing, a “poorly conceived request,” Gilmore calls it, that failed to recognize that the international tariff codes did not differentiate a product’s country of origin. The administration failed to realize this, too.
At the same time, other Alaska fishing groups were expressing reserved support for tariffs on pollock from China. Nevertheless, the administration, based on the poorly-worded recommendation from ASMI, issued tariff exclusions for all “Alaska pollock” products from China, including fish originally caught in Russia.
Jeremy Woodrow, the interim executive director of ASMI, said he was unaware of the pollock industry’s opposition to the exclusions until after the public comment period had passed. “Had we known prior to the deadline, our request may have been different,” Woodrow says.
Some in the fishing industry have taken a dim view of the administration’s approach to trade policy.
“You had people trying to do the right thing, but in the mix of all this going on with tariffs, due diligence was not being done,” says one fish industry lobbyist who works closely with the Commerce Department. “It was just rolled out in a very haphazard way.”
Who’s in charge of the fix?
Two days after the public comment period closed on Oct. 9, essentially sealing the decision, a trio of seafood interest groups sent a letter to Lighthizer requesting the new exclusion on Chinese pollock imports be lifted.
So far, according to the At-sea Processors Association, one of the groups that signed the letter, neither Lighthizer nor his office have responded. A source at the Department of Commerce, which regulates the fishing industry, says that officials at the department’s International Trade Administration were aware of the problem, and at a meeting last year discussed “fixing” it, even bringing in Secretary Wilbur Ross.
Jim Gilmore says he’s been lobbying the administration to remove the tariff exclusion for Russian pollock, meeting with ITA officials on Nov. 15 and remaining in contact with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a division of the Commerce Department that oversees fisheries. But so far, he says, nothing has been done.
A Commerce spokesman confirms that pollock industry representatives sought guidance from the ITA on how to lobby for a reversal of USTR’s decision to grant the exclusion. But according to the spokesman, USTR informed the Department that no changes could be made because the public record on the matter had already closed. Ross spoke with Alaska Sen. Dan Sullivan, a Republican, in early December to communicate USTR’s position.
“During and after the call, Secretary Ross and his team agreed to continue looking further into the matter to see if a solution can be found,” said the Commerce spokesman. Sullivan’s office did not reply to CNN a request for comment.
Friendly Fire
This isn’t the first time the President’s trade war has led to unintended consequences for US industry.
Last year, after the administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs went into effect, hundreds of American companies complained about the Commerce Department’s process of granting exclusions, arguing that requests were often caught in a bureaucratic limbo , forcing them to pay tariffs since no domestic producers could supply the kind of metal they needed. At the time, more than 37,000 steel tariff exclusion requests had been submitted, while just 2,550 had been approved and more than 1,800 had been denied.
Smaller companies also argued that the process favored big production companies which were often able to block their exclusion requests by objecting to them.
In September, Commerce announced it would amend the process to allow firms to respond to any objections filed to their exclusion requests.
In November, the inspector general at Commerce circulated internally its plans to audit the exclusion process after lawmakers publicly expressed frustration the process was “arbitrary,” according to The Hill.
Things have improved a bit. As of Feb. 4, Commerce had processed about 45 percent of the steel tariff exclusion requests it had received, 29,155 out of a total of 65,223.
While the pollock exclusion did not originate at Commerce, the Department has become a resource for seeking a tariff exclusion, says Gilmore. “Given USTR’s smaller staff they do seem to look to ITA’s analysts for support,” he says. “This is pretty arcane stuff.”
It doesn’t help that Commerce itself has staffing shortages. According to the Washington Post and the Partnership for Public Service , 29 percent of the political jobs at Commerce are either still pending before the Senate or don’t even have nominees. The director of public affairs at the department’s International Trade Administration, who CNN tried to contact for this story, is vacant.
No end in sight
What worries some in the industry is that undoing the Alaska pollock screw-up may be as challenging for the administration as getting it right the first time, at least as long as the current trade negotiations between the US and China continue.
Until then, Russian pollock remains in the grocery aisle. Conagra, the Chicago-based packaged foods giant, uses cheaper Russian pollock for its Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s frozen food brands, but not in what it sells to restaurants, dining halls and school cafeterias. “We do not sell pollock through our food service channels,” says Dan Hare, a spokesman for Conagra.
In addition, uninformed schools may continue to purchase cheaper fish sticks made from Russian pollock—hurting not just the domestic fishing industry but perhaps facilitating a violation of federal school lunch laws. The longstanding “Buy American” provision requires schools to use American-sourced food products whenever possible and feasible. Alaska’s Sen. Sullivan fought to include in last year’s farm bill a section directing the Secretary of Agriculture to “enforce full compliance” with Buy American.
As Sullivan told Alaska Public Radio in December, without full compliance, Russian-caught pollock processed in China has been sold in the US for purchase by school lunch programs.
“USDA is reviewing the recently passed bill and will work to efficiently implement its provisions now that our agency has reopened,” according to an Agriculture Department statement sent to CNN on Jan. 29.
Neither US Foods nor Sysco, two of the largest food services companies in the United States, responded directly to questions about whether they provide Russian-caught pollock to school lunch programs.
“We offer a variety of products to our customers, however, the National School Lunch Act requires participating schools to comply with the ‘Buy American’ provision and the program is subject to monitoring by school food authorities and local agencies to help ensure compliance,” said Sara Matheu of US Foods, when asked if the company sells Russian pollock to schools.
Sysco did not reply to multiple requests for comment.
Original Article : HERE ; This post was curated & posted using : RealSpecific
Thank you for taking the time to read our article.
If you enjoyed our content, we'd really appreciate some "love" with a share or two.
And ... Don't forget to have fun!
Recommended
Share this:
=
=
Storymate Lite Edition Storymate – Worlds First ‘Story’ Tool to create, post and send huge traffic to your sites through Instagram and Facebook Stories.   1- Pick A Template 2 – select or upload content  3- 1 click Render -4- post direct   to fb or instagram stories.
QuickAffiliatePro Elite Get this Brand New Software That INSTANTLY Creates 1-Click SEO-Optimized and Traffic Pulling Affiliate Sites Stacked With Fresh, Unique Content and HOT Videos To Boost Sales and Affiliate Commissions 24*7 on Complete Autopilot.
Omega Wealth Club - [Bronze Package] The Omega Wealth Coaching Program - The EXCLUSIVE Coaching and Mentoring Program For Those Who Are Ready To Go From Zero To High  5-figure Income  per month within a few months.
Trendycom GOLD With the Trendycom GOLD features, they'll be able to access a secret console that will uncover UNLIMITED dirt cheap products from many different eCom platforms!
(Discount) WEB 2.0 Sniper - Agency License The best WEB 2.0 Property finder in the world
ATL - ELITE Upgrade - PRO The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
Moto Theme DFY Advanced ( OTO 5 ) Moto Theme DFY is a premium service for customers who are looking to create their own websites with our team of experts
ClipsReel- ViraSOCI ViraSOCI is a cloud based app that lets you find and natively publish trending videos and images on your fan pages. It comes with unlimited accounts feature and agency license.
Easy Header Wizard Create Amazing Website Headers and Graphics in Seconds!
Credi Response Elite Credi Response is a web based SAAS product that is 100% compatible with Facebook terms if service. It replies to each and every comment with a notification graphic and sound on your Facebook fan page automatically..  Reach out to followers in their inbox,
PLR Sales Funnels - Combo Package - Upsell (3 Packages) Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
ThemeStacker DELUXE - Get 23 More WP Themes Get 23 more website designs for the price of 1! For ThemeStacker customers only - visit www.themestacker.net/special
VidSkippy - Basic 10 Campaigns Mimic YouTube Ads… Control Ads… Click in Video Drive Sales, Drive Conversions…
Video Marketer Agency Main Site This Is The Ultimate Video Marketers Toolbox Including Invoicing - Check It Out Today -
Castaway Commissions Discover The $719.45 Per Day Method Of This 31 Year Old Caribbean Castaway ...
Fruitphul Agency Agency version of the best productivity software and training.
VideoCrate Reseller Upgrade 10 Copies VideoCrate Reseller Value Deal -- Four top-selling video apps for the price of one! 10 copies reseller version upgrade
LetSpinio Agency Pro Gamify your lead gen to 3X your conversions.
Video Profit Machines 2.0  - Downsell 4 THE WORLDs #1 and RAPID VIDEO SYNDICATION SOFTWARE FOR GROUND-BREAKING TRAFFIC, LEADS and SALES!
WP GDPR Fix Developer 10 Sites Once you have the developer and agency rights to WP GDPR Fix all you have to do is tell your clients you have something that makes GDPR compliance easier.  Next legally implement it on your client’s website. You can charge them a one time fee or a monthly r
AdBuddy - Agency 10 Accounts Agency - Gives you the option to add more team members or alternatively create more accounts that you can control under your wing (for clients, family, team members, etc)
Livecaster 3 Reseller 250 Livecaster is a powerful software that can cast scheduled videos live on YouTube, Facebook and any other live casting website . Sell this powerful automation software without even bothering to create a single video or going live. We give you a mini websit
Product Installation Service PLR Installation at just $67 (Limited Time)
Stock Image PLR Firesale 2.0 Upsell Pack Stock image PLR Firesale 2.0 Upsell Pack Comes with Private label Rights. That means you can sell it under your own name and keep 100% profit.
Master Domaining Membership Special Get Domain Flipping Training From a 15+ Year Seasoned Professional.
Your First Sales Funnel - PLR Package Discover how to setup your very first sales funnel following this step-by-step 84 minute training with all templates included.
Vizully ELITE Pro Vizully Elite 500X Your Profits From BUYERS Hands-FREE With REAL Human Engagement On Autopilot.
LeadFunnelCloud Starter Get this Cloud Based App That Creates INSTANT Done-For-You UNLIMITED Profitable Lead Funnels To Build A HUGE List,Drive Targeted Social Traffic and Affiliate Commissions In Just 60 Seconds
SEO XBusiness - Commercial SEO XBusiness - Commercial : The only tool you need to launch a fully fledged SEO Business with no experience at all!
SyndLab 25k - qt Page 1 Rankings For BOTH Video and Niche Sites Made EASY With Automatic Syndication!
ClipsReel - 200 ReadyMade Blogs (Resellers License) Get access to 200 Ready-Made Profitable Niche Blogs that you can easily install, easily add your own Amazon, ClickBank and Adsense ads and start making money. All these blogs come with RESELLERS LICENSE>
Stock Image Firesale 2.0 - Personal Rights Stock image PLR Firesale 2.0 Comes with Personal Use. That means  you can use these images where you want.
Bitcoin Signal Robot- Simple Solution to Bitcoin Trading The best bitcoin trading robot is here! These simple signals could generate huge profits by follow our system!
xMails OTO5 : Premium Membership World's Smartest Email Autoresponder In One Time Fee (Handle Clients Mailing and Make 5k to 10k per month)
ATL - PLATINUM Upgrade - LITE DS The Affiliate Traffic Lab is a 100% cloud based software that creates traffic getting videos that you can rank on Google and Youtube in minutes to get you free traffic, leads and sales.
Vizully VIP Vizully Exclusive VIP Club - FRESH and NEW Inventory. Your UNFAIR Advantage To Consistently Long Term Growth and Profits.
JVZoo Member ALL-IN-ONE Membership Builder and Effortless Product Creation  Platform That Does The Selling For You   Create. Package. Sell.  JVZoomember is a world-class, cloud-based software built  to drive the results YOU and your customers demand.
=
Recent Posts
Recommended
IM TRAFFIC - FACEBOOK MASTERS IM Traffic - Facebook Masters - One Time Payment Lifetime Access to Kevin Fahey's Facebook Masters Training. Discounted Today.  (Full Access - 6 Module's / 27 Videos)
VidMozo Elite Promote A DEAD SIMPLE, Cloud Based App That Builds- Instant 1 Click SEO-Optimized Affiliate Sites, Curates Videos and Content and Gets You Facebook, Viral and Search Traffic on Complete AUTOPILOT
VisualReel - Advantage VisualReel Advantage is a visual content builder with Advantage features. It lets you create and share Cinemagraphs, Memes and Quote-Pictures using its massive library of 1000s of videos and images.
Interactr Local Entrepreneurs Club Local Interactr Entrepreneurs Club instantly releases 2 additional Interactr Local Video Funnels and you will receive 2 brand new exclusive interactr local video funnels each month.
FaceBook Ads 3.0 Success Toolkit Upsell 2 Get this Up-to-date "FaceBook Ads 3.0 Biz in a Box" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
SociBot AGENCY 'LITE' SociBot is an all in one Facebook traffic and commission getting software that will help you to grow your business on autopilot, even whilst your asleep!
My Unfair Advantage - Special Blow Out $297 ... Omar and Melinda Martin's highly regarded flagship product contains everything an internet marketer needs under one roof. This membership site includes LIVE weekly coaching webinars and hundreds of archived episodes. Includes access to core products and so
WP SocialContact Unlimited Sites License Contact Forms are DEAD - change the way visitors contact you and get 300% more leads, sales and income from your sites.
CreateDeliver - Certification A brand new Membership and secure product delivery platform. Certified support providers.
Email Ramp Club - 7 Day Trial Email Ramp Club 7 Day Trial for $1 -  AR Integrations + Team License + Email Club (100 emails a month)
Loop Vidio PRO Unique Desktop Software for Ranking YouTube Videos on Google.
1C Video Matrix Simply the very best Automated Live Stream Video Social Media Posting Software And Marketers Tools
VisualReel - Agency VisualReel is a visual content builder. It lets you create and share Cinemagraphs, Memes and Quote-Pictures using its massive library of 1000s of videos and images.
=
Recommended
Flexible Music Track Mega Bundle EasyTracks Super Bundle contains a library of "elastic" soundtracks that you can use with Easy Audio Lab (included with each bundle) to create professional soundtracks that match the duration of your video quickly and easily! All EasyTracks are
MonkeyDealz Create Conversion Crushing Video Deal Campaigns in Minutes. Run Special Offers, List Building Campaigns, Contest and More!
EZ Video Creator - Monthly Club - Starting Month #2 Create your own amazing videos using our massive library and easy cloud-based editing program. Get more videos each month!
Clipmagix PRO | Pretty LITTLE Things That Gets You BUYERS Clipmagix PRO : The MOST Powerful Creative and Captivating Pretty LITTLE Things Creator For HIGH Converting and HIGHLY Engaging Content That Commands Attention So You Can Get Buyers, FASTER. LOWEST One-Time Launch Special Price Today ONLY!
LeadPrimo Enterprise World’s ONLY All-In-One Email Marketing Platform That Creates Beautiful Lead Pages and Send UNLIMITED Emails Directly into Inbox to Get You More Clicks and Open Rates Without Paying Any Monthly Fees FOREVER.
VidSkippy 2.0 - Main ( 5 Projects ) Use Other People's Videos and their websites to quickly profit from any product in any niche with just a few clicks.
Adbuddy Definitive Addition This upgrade gives you the ability to launch campaigns from RIGHT INSIDE of AdBuddy straight into facebook without actually logging into facebook.
Prosociate 4 Plus Ebay - Unlimited Developer Get the power of Ebay and Amazon Prosociate site building for one low price. Become an agency building niche sites and working with affiiates.
PowerPoint King Tuts Version 2 PowerPoint King Tuts Version 2 is a video training course that teaches people how to create videos that make money.  Also included in King Tuts 2 is a PowerPoint YouTube Thumbnail project with over 170 colorful backgrounds that makes creating thumbnails f
Buyers List Blueprint how I build a 30,000+ buyers list, 10X more profitable, 10X cheaper than any other traffic source... with NO product, NO JV connections, NO skills, NO big budget and how anyone can replicate the same system to build even bigger list!
Pinguino Pro With Pro you can take the Pinguino Software to the next level! UHQ output files, multiple device templates, transparent downloads and so much more
EZ Magic Video Agency Expand EZ Magic Video with this Pre-Built Agency Website + 1000 more clips to use
Fan Automater Run Fully AUTOMATED UNLIMITED FanPages  in ANY NICHE Get 100s of NEW REAL FANS Every Week  Huge VIRAL Organic REACH for all posts Auto Content Curation – Links, Images, Videos  Comes with REAL PROOF and RESULTS
Traffic Generation 2018 Success Kit Downsell Get this Up-to-date "Traffic Generation 2018 Success Kit" with PLR Rights and start cashing in huge by selling it as your own.
ClipsReel - PRO ClipsReel PRO is an upgrade for ClipsReel where you get access to lots of new features and usage license to give you an edge over everyone else. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
7 Shares In The MTC Coop Start Getting Easy Traffic To Your Online Offers On 100% Autopilot In As Little As 3 Minutes, Guaranteed!
Live Vid Ranker OTO 5 - Reseller Discover Another Easy Way To Make Money With LiveVidRanker For Instant Money In Your PayPal Account...
PLR Sales Funnels- Combo Package - Downsell (3 Packages) Brand New, High Converting Biz in a Box You Can Sell As Your Own And Keep 100% Of The Cash In Your Pockets For Years To Come
Covert Suite Out Covert Suite Holiday Special - Our Top Selling 4 Themes and 9 Plugins at one incredible low prices
exPersona Templates exPersona Templates - A collection of templates specific to the day of the week for special offers
IFL - PLATINUM - PRO Instant Funnel Lab - The Newbie-Friendly, Cloud Based Software That Creates High-Quality Sales Funnels With Done For You Products You Can Sell In Just 60 Seconds
