Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Tired of migrant caravans? They'll keep coming until we do this
Instead of building a wall that won't work, we should funnel that money into education, economic and policing programs throughout Central America.
Post to Facebook
Tired of migrant caravans? They'll keep coming until we do this Instead of building a wall that won't work, we should funnel that money into education, economic and policing programs throughout Central America. Check out this story on azcentral.com: https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/2019/01/06/migrant-caravan-keep-coming-until-we-help-central-america/2467378002/
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
OPINION
Tired of migrant caravans? They'll keep coming until we do this
Lisa Urias, opinion contributor Published 6:00 a.m. MT Jan. 6, 2019
Opinion: Instead of building a wall that won't work, we should funnel that money into education, economic and policing programs throughout Central America.
Migrants walk up a riverbank at the Mexico-U.S. border after getting past a line of Mexican police at the Chaparral border crossing in Tijuana, Mexico, Nov. 25, 2018, as they try to reach the U.S.
(Photo11: Ramon Espinosa/Associated Press)
CONNECT11 TWEET11 LinkedIn11 COMMENT11EMAIL11MORE11
Mass migration is becoming the increasing norm around the globe, a trend on visceral display with Central American migrant caravans to the U.S. southern border.
While immigration numbers from Mexico have decreased in the past 10 years, an increasing number of migrants, particularly from Central America, regularly seek asylum in this country. Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala have seen a significant increase in violence and vast economic dislocations among their people.
With little hope for near-term resolutions, these migration patterns are creating significant humanitarian, logistic and potential economic crises for the United States. 
What we're doing isn't working
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Conditions at the makeshift shelter are so crowded, families are now camping outside the  sports park.
Rafael Carranza, The Republic
Rafael Carranza. The Republic
Rafael Carranza, The Republic
Replay
A strategy of using draconian methods to deter or stop migrants from entering at the border is not a long-term or viable solution to problems that have both practical and moral implications.
Yet over the past 20 years, American businesses and government have spent trillions of dollars and untold amounts of time and energy in the Middle East and Far East, while ignoring the political and economic strategic value in our own Western Hemisphere.
We systematically underserve our geographic sphere of influence to the south while simultaneously throwing countless resources in wasteful efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and significant economic ventures in other regions like China and India. Today, we speak of spending $5 billion on a border wall that will do little to deter these migration patterns .
If in the last 20 years we had used a fraction of those dollars toward building and strengthening ties to our neighbors to the south, perhaps the situation would be dramatically different today on many fronts in Central and South America, including the human migration problem.
Congress and business leaders must build solutions that flow from policies and financial strategies to strengthen existing – as well as develop new – economic and political ties with our neighbors to the south. 
Mexico is beefing up aid. We may cut it
Our newly elected leadership in Congress should build a coalition focused not only on passing immigration reform, but also on developing a more concrete economic strategy in the Western Hemisphere.
Improving the conditions for our Western Hemisphere will increase economic prosperity in the region and change the nature of the human migration issues we face.
Mexico recently pledged $30 billion in development aid to help build the impoverished geographic region of Southern Mexico and Central America. Mexico has committed “to an effort on the scale of the Marshall Plan” to help contain migration from Central America.
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Our best and latest in commentary in daily digest form.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Opinions Newsletter
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
As Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard put it, “the best way to confront migration is to exclude it and control it” by investing resources into development of opportunities in impoverished areas to reduce the incentive for people to leave their homelands.
Yet the Trump administration has done nothing but threaten to cut hundreds of millions in foreign aid to Central America currently used for police and military training to fight violence in the region, while pledging billions in taxpayer dollars to a wall that won’t help.
Perhaps it is time to rethink how those current dollars and pledged future ones are used and work with Mexico to develop educational and economic opportunities in the region.
Congress can - and should - do more
CLOSE
From exports to jobs to daily tourist spending, the economic impact really adds up. azcentral.com Wochit
This is clearly doable. Central America is a relatively small region by global geographic standards. And our neighbors to the south will be eager and willing participants in ventures and strategies designed to increase trade and strengthen their economies, which also will benefit the United States.
There have been major advancements already, particularly in Mexico, in the sectors of aerospace, automotive manufacturing, energy technology and more. As a result, our migration patterns from Mexico have slowed significantly. But clearly, it’s time to do more.
The human migration challenges our nation faces from our neighbors to the south come in large measure from our own chronic business and policy myopia that has failed to cultivate relationships with the resource-rich neighbors of our Western Hemisphere.
The U.S. Congress working with Mexico and our business leaders should commit to new political and economic strategies within our Western Hemisphere that advance education and strengthen commerce in the region. 
Standing only on a failed strategy of frightening with force and callousness these desperate people once they reach our borders will only deepen the humanitarian crisis for the entire Western Hemisphere and undermine the moral leadership of the United States around the World.  
Lisa Urias is managing partner of CoNecs North America, a public relations and brand management agency and corporate board member of National Bank of Arizona.
READ MORE:
NEWSLETTERS
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Our best and latest in commentary in daily digest form.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-332-6733.
Delivery: Mon-Fri
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Opinions Newsletter
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Subscribe Now
