Beto O'Rourke to march, speak against border wall during Trump rally in El Paso
The rally comes as O'Rourke enters the final stages of deliberation over a potential presidential campaign.
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri: O'Rourke/REUTERS/Yuri Gripas: Trump
Beto O'Rourke is not shying away from the spotlight as President Donald Trump prepares to hold a rally in El Paso, the hometown of the former congressman and potential presidential candidate.
On Monday evening, O'Rourke will lead a march through the city and then speak at a "Celebration of El Paso" event at 7 p.m. local time — across the street from Trump's rally and at the same time it is set to begin, according to O'Rourke's team. The celebration, which will feature music and other speakers, is intended to highlight El Paso's strength as a binational community — and push back against Trump's long-sought border wall.
The rally comes as O'Rourke nears a decision on whether to join the Democratic race to challenge Trump in 2020 after a closer-than-expected loss to U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, in November. Last week, O'Rourke promised a 2020 decision by the end of the month.
Earlier Monday, O'Rourke will join his successor in Congress, Rep. Veronica Escobar, for a conference call to "denounce Trump’s campaign rally in El Paso and his fixation on a racist and useless border wall," organizers said. And on Friday evening, O'Rourke returned to his favorite blogging platform, Medium, to offer a prebuttal to Trump's trip.
The Texas Tribune thanks its sponsors. Become one .
"Monday we will welcome the president to one of the safest cities in the United States," O'Rourke wrote . "Safe not because of walls, and not in spite of the fact that we are a city of immigrants. Safe because we are a city of immigrants and because we treat each other with dignity and respect."
Read related Tribune coverage
Quality journalism doesn't come free
Perhaps it goes without saying — but producing quality journalism isn't cheap. At a time when newsroom resources and revenue across the country are declining, The Texas Tribune remains committed to sustaining our mission : creating a more engaged and informed Texas with every story we cover, every event we convene and every newsletter we send. As a nonprofit newsroom, we rely on members to help keep our stories free and our events open to the public. Do you value our journalism? Show us with your support.
Comment Policy
The Texas Tribune is pleased to provide the opportunity for you to share your observations about this story. We encourage lively debate on the issues of the day, but we ask that you refrain from using profanity or other offensive speech, engaging in personal attacks or name-calling, posting advertising, or wandering away from the topic at hand. To comment, you must be a registered user of the Tribune, and your real name will be displayed. All comments are shown in Central Time. Thanks for taking time to offer your thoughts.
You must be logged in to leave a comment. | Login | Sign Up
Your Comment
