Our website uses cookies to improve its performance and enhance your user experience. Through cookies, certain personal data is collected and may be stored temporarily. You can change your cookie settings through your browser. More info: Privacy Policy
©                     AP Photo / Cliff Owen
Over 61,000 professional aircraft pilots are telling Trump to end the government shutdown, warning of security threats in US skies.
©                     REUTERS / Mohammed Salem
With US President Donald Trump hunkered down in the White House tweeting his new "presidential harassment" slogan regarding the growing political opposition on Capitol Hill at the hands of a newly Democratic House of Representatives, US airline pilots have released on open letter warning of threats to air safety over America unless the president's ongoing government shutdown is ended.
The president of the Air Line Pilots Association, International (ALPA), representing about 61,000 professional pilots in some 32 air carriers including United, Jet Blue, Delta, Fedex and Virgin America, has detailed that the safety and security of US airspace is at stake as federal workers furloughed by the Trump shutdown struggle to pay for basic needs including transportation, heat, food and shelter.
The open letter , signed by the ALPA president, Captain Joe DePete, is asking that Trump end his partial US government shutdown "immediately," according to Business Insider.
In the blunt communique, ALPA details that " disruptions being caused by the shutdown are threatening the safe operations of this network," and points out that when "responsibilities are placed on pause due to a shutdown there are safety, security and efficiency gaps that immediately emerge" particularly as there "are fewer safety inspectors than are needed," cited by Fox5NY.com.
©                     AFP 2018 / SAUL LOEB
In noting the many "safety issues that put passengers and airline crews at risk" occurring as a result of Trump's shutdown of the US government, the letter also observes that "air traffic controllers, airspace system maintenance personnel, and the airline passenger security workforce are being asked to work unpaid," as increasing numbers of US Transportation Authority (TSA) airport security screeners call in sick or simply do not show up, bringing to a crawl or halt passenger access to flights in many US airports.
The unprecedented letter closes with a plea urging Trump to "take the necessary steps to immediately end the shutdown of government agencies that is affecting the safety, security and efficiency of our national airspace system," cited by Inc.com.
Earlier it was reported by CNN that, at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), up to 170 TSA security screeners are regularly calling out sick with a so-called green flu, even as officers from individual shifts are required to work extra time to cover the outages resulting from the shutdown.
The Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) in Texas, has seen a 200-300 percent increase in TSA security staff sick day call-outs following the shutdown, according to Dailykos.com.
When pressed for comment, airline security union leaders confirmed that the absences were not a result of official union actions and warned that increasing numbers of TSA workers are likely to call out sick with the ubiquitous green flu.
©                     Sputnik / Vladimir Sergeev
"This problem of call outs is really going to explode over the next week or two when employees miss their first paycheck," stated a DFW union official, cited by CNN.
"TSA officers are telling the union they will find another way to make money," the official said, adding, "that means calling out to work other jobs."
Green flu sick days by TSA security workers are expected to increase as the Trump government shutdown continues, while US airports are projected to be increasingly dysfunctional, according to Dailykos.com.
...
Related:
Add Comment
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Save
Thank you! Your comment will be reviewed by the moderator for compliance with the Rules
Sputnik push notifications
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy
Register
* All fields are required
Please confirm your e-mail to continue. Confirmation instructions have been sent to
Are you sure you want to delete your Sputniknews.com account?
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy . It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
I agree to the processing of my personal data for the purpose of creating a personal account on this site, in compliance with the Privacy Policy.
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com .
Next
Community standards
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
does not correspond with the subject of the post;
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
violates the rights of minors, causing them harm in any form, including moral damage;
contains ideas of extremist nature or calls for other illegal activities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
contains insults or messages expressing disrespect to Sputnik;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
describes or references scenes of violence, cruelty to animals;
contains information about methods of suicide, incites to commit suicide;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
promotes products or services of third parties without proper authorization;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
contains spam, advertises spamming, mass mailing services and promotes get-rich-quick schemes;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
contains links to viruses and malicious software;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
“floods” the discussion thread with a large number of incoherent or irrelevant messages;
violates etiquette, exhibiting any form of aggressive, humiliating or abusive behavior ("trolling");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
User ID
An explanation of the actions which were in violation of the rules above and resulted in the lock.
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Log in
