Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
A subscription is required to continue reading.
Thank you for reading 10 free articles on Roanoke.com. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber to the Roanoke Times newspaper you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click Sign Up to subscribe, or Login if you are already a member.
Thank you for reading 10 free articles on Roanoke.com. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber to the Roanoke Times newspaper you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click below to Get Started.
Thank you for Reading.
Please log in, or sign up for a new account to continue reading.
×
×
Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
Thank you for reading 10 free articles on Roanoke.com. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber to the Roanoke Times newspaper you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click Sign Up to subscribe, or Login if you are already a member.
A subscription is required to continue reading.
Thank you for reading 10 free articles on Roanoke.com. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber to the Roanoke Times newspaper you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click below to Get Started.
Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
Let's Confirm You're In Our Delivery Area
Sorry, this zipcode is not in our deliverable area for this subscription service.
Re-enter zip code or sign up for digital access.
Zip Code
(24010)
Today
Partly to mostly cloudy. High 61F. Winds NW at 5 to 10 mph..
Tonight
Cloudy skies with periods of rain late. Low 41F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 100%.
Updated: February 21, 2019 @ 11:01 am
Close
Elizabeth Banks and Chris Pratt in “The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part”
Warner Bros. Pictures/IMDb/TNS
By Katie Walsh Tribune News Service (TNS)
Feb 10, 2019
Warner Bros. Pictures/IMDb/TNS
Receive today's headlines in your inbox with our daily news email
Think of “Lego Movie 2” as the “Empire Strikes Back” to “The Lego Movie’s” “A New Hope.” It bears the comparison as the sequel is an epic space opera, with characters exploring the galaxies far, far away from Bricksburg, which is now Apocalypseburg. It’s been a long few years for Emmett (Chris Pratt) and the gang, who have gone full “Mad Max” during a war with a baby-voiced alien race made of Duplo blocks who have decimated the landscape with cutesy heart bombs.
When his pals, including Lucy (Elizabeth Banks), Unikitty (Alison Brie), Batman (Will Arnett) et al., are abducted onto a spaceship by a mysterious, masked general (Stephanie Beatriz), the sweet, cheery Emmett has to dig deep and go after them, venturing into the far reaches of the Sistar System. He runs into a scruffy, manly hero-type, Rex Dangervest (Pratt). The character is a direct satire of Pratt’s action hero roles (he rides with a crew of velociraptors), and Rex helps Emmett harness his inner stud via toxic masculinity.
It’s pretty astonishing to consider what “The Lego Movie 2” accomplishes. As expected, it’s a hilarious sendup of and tribute to all the properties in the Warner Bros. stable, including “Harry Potter,” “Lord of the Rings” and all the DC comics characters. It introduces new characters, including the memorably shape-shifting alien Queen Watevra Wa’Nabi (Tiffany Haddish). But most impressively, it is a sly, subversive and decidedly pointed argument against xenophobia that asks, can’t we all just get along?
The “Lego” movies exist inside a real-world universe. These fantastical outer-space realms are dreamed up by Finn (Jadon Sand), and now, his sister, Bianca (Brooklynn Prince). When the realms clash, it’s because Finn and his sister are clashing. But the film makes the powerful point that those who are new and different, those who arrive with outstretched arms come in peace and love. We reject and lash out at these newcomers at our own peril. Although it’s packaged in a wild, neon-bright, irreverent movie about toy bricks, it’s a moral that resonates deeply.
Phone: 800-346-1234
Email: customer@roanoke.com
