Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Post to Facebook
Trump's $12 billion bailout for farmers draws mixed reactions in Iowa USDA officials said Tuesday that trade damage from retaliatory tariffs has disproportionately affected American farmers. Check out this story on desmoinesregister.com: https://dmreg.co/2LLQ8Xs
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules .                                         Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Trump's $12 billion bailout for farmers draws mixed reactions in Iowa
William Petroski , Des Moines Register Published 7:43 p.m. CT July 24, 2018 | Updated 8:38 a.m. CT July 25, 2018
CLOSE
Both candidates for Iowa Governor talked to farmers at stops across the state about their concerns over the mounting trade war with China. Brian Powers and Kelsey Kremer, Des Moines Register
Soybean harvest in Iowa.
President Donald Trump administration's plan to provide $12 billion in federal aid to American farmers hurt by a trade war drew a sharp mix of reactions Tuesday from Iowa farm groups, politicians, agricultural economists and others.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue described the initiative as a short-term strategy that will protect agricultural producers while Trump works on long-term trade deals to benefit agriculture and the entire U.S. economy.
But critics suggested the bailout is contrary to the traditional Republican philosophy of free markets and smaller government. They also pointed out that while Iowa farm income has been down, agriculture had been doing well from an export standpoint before it was negatively affected by Trump's decisions to impose tariffs and pick trade fights with China, Mexico, Canada and other major trading partners of the United States.
U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley, a New Hartford farmer and a Republican, said the president's plans to provide billions of dollars in federal aid for struggling farmers is encouraging for the short term.
"What farmers in Iowa and throughout rural America need in the long term are markets and opportunity, not government handouts. I look forward to reviewing the details of the President’s proposal and continuing to work with the Administration to find permanent solutions," Grassley said.
Mark Recker of Arlington, president of the Iowa Corn Growers Association, said that when politics or market forces put farmers at risk, the government can and should consider initiatives to keep family farmers on the farm.
"As farmers, we want access to markets, which will allow us the ability to compete on a level playing field, but support these payments if this stands as our only recourse," Recker said.
But Drew Klein, state director of American for Prosperity, a political advocacy group funded by billionaire industrialist Charles Koch, called the Trump administration's plans bad news for Iowans.
”We need good trade policy that helps Iowa farmers, not a government bailout to compensate for crippling tariffs," Klein said.
NEWSLETTERS
Get the Breaking News Alert newsletter delivered to your inbox
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Alerts on breaking news delivered straight to your inbox.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-877-424-0225.
Delivery: Varies
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Breaking News Alert
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Three initiatives are being targeted by the USDA to help farmers:
A market facilitation program will provide payments incrementally to producers of soybeans, sorghum, corn, wheat, cotton, dairy and hogs.
The USDA will implement a food purchase and distribution program to purchase surplus food such as fruits, nuts, rice, legumes, beef, pork and milk, for distribution to food banks and other nutrition programs.
A trade promotion program will be administered by the Foreign Agriculture Service in conjunction with the private sector to develop new export markets for U.S. farm products.
"This will help," said Chad Hart, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University. "What they are talking about is almost a direct cash infusion into agriculture. … What I think the president is saying is that these tariffs will be in place for at least this fall and this harvest season, and, 'Here is some support, because you are going to have to wrestle with these tariffs — at least for now.' "
USDA officials announced the plans as political analysts have been warning that Republican elected officials could face a backlash in rural America in November's election as a result of Trump's push for new trade agreements. The details were unveiled just two days before Trump is scheduled to fly to Iowa for a roundtable discussion on workforce development at Northeast Iowa Community College, in the Dubuque area.
Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in Iowa by more than 9 percentage points in the 2016 election, attracting 51 percent of the vote while carrying 93 of 99 Iowa counties. But his approval rating in Iowa dropped to 43 percent in March, according to Morning Consult, a digital research company, and 53 percent of Iowans disapproved of his job performance that month.
U.S. soybean prices have plunged by about 20 percent since March, when Trump first imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, causing China and other countries to retaliate. Commodity prices for pork, corn and other major Iowa farm products have declined as well. Iowa farmers had 220 million bushels of soybeans in storage last month, close to 40 percent of their 2017 crop.
Figure 1 highlights Chinese market share in world soybean utilization and trade.
 (Photo11: John Newton, )
Many Iowa farmers and GOP leaders have said the state's agricultural community mostly supports Trump's pursuit of better trade deals with foreign countries. But farmers' patience could be limited. They also worry that a trade war could hurt Iowa farm implement manufacturers, such as Deere & Co., and other agribusinesses. 
Gov. Kim Reynolds, a Republican campaigning for election, agreed with other Republicans that the $12 billion in federal aid to farmers is simply a short-term fix.
"As I've said all along, nobody wins in a trade war. We must continue to expand and open markets, protect the Renewable Fuel Standard and allow Iowa products to be sold across the globe. Iowa farmers are the most productive in the world and will always win when they have unrestricted access to markets," Reynolds said.
Neil Hamilton, a law professor and director of Drake University's Agricultural Law Center, said Trump's decision to impose tariffs on the country's best agricultural customers couldn't have come at a worse time for farmers. That's because of low commodity prices, potentially large crops and challenging economic situations.
"But this really shouldn't have come as a surprise, because Trump actually campaigned on the idea that he was going to do this," Hamilton said.
The Iowa Pork Producers Association said it stood behind a statement issued Tuesday by the National Pork Producers Council president's statement that Trump's proposal would provide "much-needed relief."
Iowa pigs in Hawarden, Iowa on March 26, 2018.
 (Photo11: Nati Harnik, AP)
Dermot Hayes, an economist at Iowa State University who closely monitors U.S. agriculture policy and international trade, said the USDA initiative could be  a solution if you are a farmer looking at disastrous revenue at harvest because of low prices and the federal government cuts you a check to make up the difference.
But Hayes said federal programs to purchase and give away food can end up cannibalizing existing markets, which means there is a limit to how much food can be given away.
U.S. Rep. Steve King, R-Kiron, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, issued a statement praising Trump for helping agricultural producers.
“President Trump personally promised me that agriculture would be held harmless as he worked on trade, and today’s announcement of $12 billion in USDA assistance for disrupted markets confirms his intention to keep his promise to me,” King said. “Importantly, the USDA intends to use a Trade Promotion Program to develop new export markets for American agricultural products. These new export markets will remain when the current disputes over trade are settled on terms more favorable to American producers."
U.S. Rep. David Young was less pleased.
"What this really is, though, is the administration — the president — admitting that his trade policies are hurting Iowa farmers and producers, and all across the heartland for that matter," Young in an interview with WHO-TV. "Farmers want markets, they want trade, and not necessarily this aid."
U.S. Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, said that in Iowa alone, more than 456,000 jobs are supported by global trade, and new tariffs are threatening $977 million in state exports.
"I will continue to push the administration to open up new markets and finalize trade deals, steps that will go the distance to ensure the success of America and Iowa’s agricultural economy," Ernst said.
Iowa Farm Bureau Federation President Craig Hill said Iowa farmers are hopeful the $12 billion in federal aid will help mitigate the financial effects the trade war has had on their bottom lines.
"We continue to encourage the administration to end this trade war, and the clear preference for farmers is negotiating new trade agreements where we can grow demand for American-grown food, fiber and energy and have free access to markets, unencumbered by tariffs," Hill said.
CLOSE
Trade tariff negotiations; Mother killed protecting her daughter as their house collapses in Hamilton APP Newsbreak, Asbury Park Press
NEWSLETTERS
Get the Breaking News Alert newsletter delivered to your inbox
We're sorry, but something went wrong
Alerts on breaking news delivered straight to your inbox.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-877-424-0225.
Delivery: Varies
Thank you! You're almost signed up for Breaking News Alert
Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
Subscribe Now
