Courtney Kirchoff  Tuesday February 5 2019
Kamala Harris, aside from being a skank, is a rude moron who’s also a hypocrite. If there’s one thing I hear proud feminists screech about it’s “men interrupt women!” Except feminists like Kamala Harris have a habit of interrupting people who are answering their own stupid questions. I present judicial nominee Neomi Rao, who also made a meal of Jazz Hands Cory Booker . Kamala sidled up to her mic to ask a women are victims of men question. But instead of getting a win, Kamala got a smack. A smack she’s unaware of receiving.
Here's the bottom line: survivors of sexual assault should not be blamed for the trauma they've experienced. Neomi Rao's prior writings about sexual assault are completely unacceptable and her responses to my questions today were deeply troubling. pic.twitter.com/jlOuhHWtQx
Here’s the bottom line: we should all take care to prevent ourselves from becoming victims. Period. Neomi Rao’s responses are deeply troubling to sluts like Kamala Harris because to sluts like Kamala Harris “personal responsibility” is a swear word, right up there with c*nt and not sleeping with your boss. Read  San Francisco Mayor Admits to Affair With Kamala Harris, Advancing Her Career .
Let’s remove rape or sexual assault from the equation here. What’s wrong with being responsible in efforts to avoid being a victim of anything? Example: I wear a seatbelt. Why? Because I don’t trust other drivers. According to Kamala’s line of questioning and the illogic it presumes, I shouldn’t have to worry about my own safety because other drivers should just pay attention. And not text their friends. A seatbelt, to Kamala Harris, is blaming the victim. Why should I keep myself safe when others should just be better drivers?
Telling ladies “Don’t get drunk, be safe” or even the reverse “Be safe, don’t get drunk” isn’t blaming a victim. It’s saying “you’re responsible for you.” A drunk person makes crappy decisions, doesn’t have their wits about them and is often without basic things like balance. A drunk person is, therefore, easy pickings for a shitty person. Should there be shitty people who rape and take advantage? No. But are there? Yes. Should we tell people to just go about carelessly because crime isn’t their fault, we should just prosecute the criminal? WTF world are we living in?
When did it become controversial to keep yourself safe from the reality of this world? Also, Kamala Harris is a skank. Just in case you missed that point:  Dear Kamala Harris, You Anti-Gun, Opportunistic, Hypocritical Skank .
Comments
