Iran protest: ‘Trump is RIGHT’ Europe SAVAGED for soft touch on Iran after ‘YEAR OF SHAME'
EUROPE must end its ‘soft touch’ approach on Tehran and follow Donald Trump’s hardline stance on Iran, according to demonstrators who flooded the streets of Paris in a dramatic protest.
0
Thousands of Iranians rallied and marched in Paris yesterday to mark the 40th anniversary of the Iran uprising which toppled the country’s monarchy. The powerful march swept through the streets of Paris, with the rhythms of the drums echoing as demonstrators chanted powerful slogans against the Iran regime. Protesters called on the global community to act now and end atrocities in Tehran - but it was Europe which was most heavily condemned as the demonstrators stood behind US President Donald Trump for his tough stance on the regime.
Related articles
One speaker at the rally, former French Senator Jean-Pierre Michel, said in an interview: “I’m not a fanatic of Mr Trump but I think the United States is right about Iran.”
In a scathing attack, he also chastised Europe’s leaders for what he views as their softer approach to Tehran.
He added: “I want to call upon our governments, European governments, Jean-Yves Le Drian and Federica Mogherini, do not fear the Iranian Resistance.
“Open your eyes and ears. Retake the dignity that the status of Europe brings upon you, take back the dignity of the Europeans. Support the Iranian Resistance.”
Iran protest: The rally in Paris was held to condemn the Iran regime (Image: NCRI/MEK)
Iran protest: Flags and banners were waved at the rally (Image: NCRI/MEK)
Dr Alejo Vidal-Quadras, a former Spanish Member of the European Parliament, also spoke out at the rally in support of the Iranian community.
He said: “I call on the EU to take a hard line with this theocratic and terrorist regime which has no future.
“The EU must stop its appeasement policies and support the Iranian opposition instead of the mullahs.
“Appeasement only encourages the mullahs to commit more crimes in Iran and more terrorism in Europe.
“The EU has to put the entire Iranian Intelligence Ministry and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps on its terrorism blacklist.”
Iran news: Paris was flooded as thousands turned out to protest (Image: NCRI/MEK)
I’m not a fanatic of Mr Trump but I think the United States is right about Iran
French Senator Jean-Pierre Michel
The march, which was organised by exiled Iranian opposition group the Mujahedeen-e-Khalq or MEK, started in Paris’s Denfert Rochereau Square and ended at Les Invalides in front of the French National Assembly.
Pprotesters condemned the continuing human rights violations in Iran, increasing terrorist plots of the regime and the regime’s continuing missile and nuclear programs.
They also supported the social movements and protests by the Iranian people against the mullahs’ dictatorship.
In his address to protestors, Gilbert Mitterrand referred to a recent report by Amnesty International which called 2018 the year of shame for Iran during which 7,000 people were arrested for protesting against the regime.
Iran news: Protestors called on Europe to do more to help 'Free Iran' (Image: NCRI/MEK)
Security at the protest was tight. Last year the MEK’s annual rally, which is attended by thousands of Iranians, was the target of an alleged bomb plot.
France, Belgium, Austria, Luxembourg and Germany were all involved in helping to foil the alleged plot, with an Iranian diplomat among three arrested after a car carrying explosives was discovered by police.
MEK spokesman Shahin Gobadi said: "As long as we're dealing with the main state sponsor of terrorism, there is a concern ... But that will never stop us.”
Iran has denied the allegations and claims the accusations are intended to damage relations between Iran and the EU.
Related articles
Saturday, 16th February 2019
See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
